Jogging through my memory, I remember that back then, there was a time when people blabbed about "How to Win Friends and Influence People", along with many other notorious self-helps, bragging about how to step up pursuing the ultimate successes.

There was another time witnessing the very trend of "live the way you are", which vehemently called for "mask-offs", thus doing away with every flowery hypocrisy. They, after all, must have been worn out by inherently entangled dogmas, from steps-before-articulating-everything to be-wary-of-your-fking-tone-here.

Not until recently was such a trend fiercely criticized. People this time stated that it was any less of a defense for the haphazard, lethargic and sophomoric lifestyle. Worse still, they even voiced that "living the way you are" should never urge someone to get under others' skin, nor should they louse themselves up to fit in which.

As a rule, once buying into anything, we ourselves are predestined ending up awfully extreme. Even when we hurt for harmony, that harmony has already born with it extremism.

Thus, given their extreme nature, every piece of self-help advice or "live with your-truly-self" itself is absurd, forasmuch as this post is to zero in that absurdity - as argued on my own extremism.

"Live with your-truly-self"

To date, given that we must have all too heard of such a saying, we still are failing to define the both halves of which: to "live", and with "your-truly-self".

After all, are "ourselves" - or more properly called our self-worths - something that thrive and pile up over time, or an inherent treasure pre-defined even before anything else?

Back then, the ubiquitous dogma on "self-worths" was the very critical factor behind inequality and colonialism . Counting on which as constant values, some, thus, valued themselves as inherently superior to others. And since one's value "was" perpetual, so was order. After all, for these sublime individuals were indeed a cut above, they purported themselves as shouldering the "crippling burden" of "emancipating" the ordinary.

By the s, a series of studies by Carol Dweck and colleagues about Entity and Incremental Theory revealed that we could have modified our mindset, habits or even intellectual levels. The success of which did exert enormous impacts on education and business philosophies, fanned out shortly afterwards in forms of self-helps.

Once getting to know that formerly perpetual values were, however, "nont-that-fixed," has granted humans with less severe perceptions on themselves and others, with the very piece of knowledge that everything could have headed towards betterness and the other way around. For the first time, people got to know that they should not have been too asperous on failures, which had been ad hoc redeemable.

However, the popularity of which has distorted its very concept. As people anticipate that they are to laud new theories and welcome the "new truths" would turn beliefs on change and individualism into extremism. They have every so often overestimated their personal efforts, whilst staying heedless of any other critical environment impacts.

I thus purport that even when personal will is vital and as much crucial in bringing about positive changes, we still are dogged with many an uncontrollably entangled environmental factors. For both are inherently to shape one's ego and "fate", we should never turn a deaf ear to either of which.

To put into perspective, our very "changeable dogmas" can get us extreme and coarse towards the mentally- or psychologically-ill (those with laziness or depression), thus tuning out every environmental factor that might have spearheaded which. Such a manner even gets us to simplify life, which is inherently convoluted, as well as ducking the responsibility entirely on those who fail in life, heedless of whether they might be the very victims of social order or many other macro factors.

I thus assert that we do possess a "self-worth" which is reflective from our own society, which can get polished up from personal efforts and other environmental factors. Inasmuch as since everything is woefully intermingled, our personal development and lives must be equally perpetually convoluted.

Here comes the very paradox that everyone is proclaiming their lives arduous, whilst belittling others' as any less straightforward.

For "self-worth" is something modifiable, I myself purport that the afore-argued advice is superfluous. In other words, we are actually "living the way we are", as we could hardly ever "pretend" owning the very traits that are poles apart from ours. At the very core, either the best, the worst, the most frank or the most pretentious are living lives that feast on the hidden materials tucked away within themselves.

After all, that you eat as a horse, speak as a leader, bare your souls, or stay reckless has never been "living with our-truly-selves", nor something that gain us better lives than others'. Nor would those lifestyles get us more jubilant than those we perceive as "hypocrites". On the whole, any of which must have originated from many a predecessor of ours. Forasmuch as given that we have every right to embark on any lifestyle, we could never either brag that yours must quell others', or even anticipate that they would somehow lead us fulfilling lives.

Every efficacious lifestyle, on the other hand, must feast on pre-existing materials, environmental conditions and conducive relationships. Thus, how your lifestyle fit in these conditions must be instead the most critical factor behind your life experience.

"Stay positive, and keep lauding others"

It has been a long time since humans came up with the very saying "every life has two sides", implying that even the most dismal things must have born with which their own values.

That such negative emotions as sorrow, jadedness and frustration exist since they own some functions, storm us as vehemently as positive emotions and above all, get us to abide by positivity.

That we zero in positive things as the ultimate living purposes, after all, would run us into miseries, for negative experience is an inherent part of which. To which the more people turn a deaf ear, the more fragile and panic-stricken they would be once storms [which are inescapable] arrive.

Once exposed to the fact that their values are modifiable, they would as well hurt for ways to bring about such changes. Nonetheless, the very training of humans has never been carried out with purely positive encouragement. To demonstrate, education does own its own systems of doctrine that govern how to criticize, comment, or even punish efficiently.

A child should be taught to shoulder his own responsibilities and mistakes from early ages, thus getting himself exposed to negative emotions - the very way to correct his behaviors; and to face what the society would "grant" his with once grown up. Education, after all, should as well mentally prepare children for their awful futures.

Every so often, I stumbled upon adolescents who felt as though they had been horribly mistreated given their wrongdoings, since they, as a child, had never born with such a thing. Parents, after all, might arrive at either setting up an utopia for their children to savor for the rest of their lives, or designing the environments most similar to our society so that their children would hardly get panic-stricken (nor would they bother others and win back some black eyes).

After all, striving to escape such negativity as criticism or punishment could get every good motive to breed undesirable results. Given that parents are all-too-hurt-for an elatable life for their children, thus refraining from yelling at and lauding instead, would knowing that such behaviors would spearhead horrible backfires in the future get them to take another look at which?

Count on ridicules and design your own lives.

We have all too often turned to astrology, fortune telling, horoscopes, biometric fingerprints, or online IQ tests to gun for their self-worth and some lodestars in life. Were life indeed that straightforward, we would, after all, never again slog through this low-key article and bear with many a distress.

Splurging time, money and faith on such models, after all, would win you back no value but the very opportunity to experience rigorously professionally designed programs bearing with them the only ultimate goal of leading others on.

As a rule, you are always being sucked in trying which, inasmuch as the more "astute" the "salesmen" are, the more you would give in to their seductions. At their very core, such systems are inherently unflinchingly built to feast on every little, sitting-duck piece of our [emotional] minds.

Since I myself perceive which as trivial, thus trying any of which should appear somewhat bearable. Nevertheless, living a life revolving around a predetermined guide, after all, would ad hoc calm you, yet storm your little feeble minds shortly afterwards. Given that every piece of spurious advice does blow off some steam of yours, since you could spare some time letting go of the wheel and ducking responsibilities [on some ultimate entities], you, after all, are heedless that whoever you pass it on, you yourselves are the ones to be dogged in tragedy.

To put into perspective, upon blaming our failures on misfortune, ill-favored health on constellation movement and broken relationships on millions of light-years away, are we not turning a blind eye to the fact that we still are woefully stormed by all those negative experiences? Lucky us, for we still have a way out of which - the uncontrollable Mercury's orbit that is about to spoil our bright future - handing some "trivial" amount of money over to augurs and beg them to cure us of which.

After all, I still am finding that "many pain, no gain" thing vexatious, even when such splurges must have originated from the believers' wills.

But why should I bother such a none-of-my-business thing?

Once I purported that I would always abide by others' decisions, as long as they are jubilant at which. It would give me some sense of relief, were any of those systems could indeed better someone's life.

After all, are they actually elated?
