Rosalind Franklin: The Hero Denied Her DueDue

In , Francis Crick, James Watson and Maurice Wilkins shared the Nobel Prize for describing DNA's double-helix structure - arguably the greatest discovery of the th century. But no one mentioned Rosalind Franklin - arguably the greatest snub of the th century.

The British-born Franklin was a firebrand, a perfectionist who worked in isolation. "She was prickly, did not make friends easily, but when she did she was outgoing and loyal," Jenifer Glynn wrote in My Sister Rosalind Franklin.

Franklin was also a brilliant chemist and a master of X-ray crystallography, an imaging technique that reveals the molecular structure of matter based on the pattern of scattered X-ray beams. Her early research into the microstructures of carbon and graphite are still cited, but her work with DNA was the most significant - and it may have won three men a Nobel.

While at King's College London in the early s, Franklin was close to proving the double-helix theory after capturing "photograph " considered the finest image of a DNA molecule at the time. But then both Watson and Crick got a peek at Franklin's work: Her colleague, Wilkins, showed Watson photograph , and Max Perutz, a member of King's Medical Research Council, handed Crick unpublished data from a report Franklin submitted to the council. In , Watson and Crick published their iconic paper in Nature, loosely citing Franklin, whose "supporting" study also appeared in that issue.

Franklin left King's in a long-planned move to join J.D. Bernal's lab at Birkbeck College, where she discovered the structure of the tobacco mosaic virus. But in the prime of her career, she developed ovarian cancer - perhaps due to her extensive X-ray work. Franklin continued working in the lab until her death in.

"As a scientist, Miss Franklin was distinguished by extreme clarity and perfection in everything she undertook," Bernal wrote in her obituary, published in Nature. Though it's her achievements that close colleagues admired, most remember Franklin for how she was forgotten. - Carl Engelking
