Galileo Galilei: Discoverer of the Cosmos

Around Dec, Italian mathematician Galileo Galilei pointed a telescope at the moon and created modern astronomy. His subsequent observations turned up four satellites - massive moons - orbiting Jupiter, and showed that the Milky Way's murky light shines from many dim stars. Galileo also found sunspots upon the surface of our star and discovered the phases of Venus, which confirmed that the planet circles the sun inside Earth's own orbit.

"I give infinite thanks to God, who has been pleased to make me the first observer of marvelous things," he wrote.

The year-old Galileo didn't invent the telescope, and he wasn't the first to point one at the sky. But his conclusions changed history. Galileo knew he'd found proof for the theories of Polish astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus , who had launched the Scientific Revolution with his sun-centered solar system model.

Galileo's work wasn't all staring at the sky, either: His studies of falling bodies showed that objects dropped at the same time will hit the ground at the same time, barring air resistance - gravity doesn't depend on their size. And his law of inertia allowed for Earth itself to rotate.

But all this heavenly motion contradicted Roman Catholic doctrine, which was based on Aristotle's incorrect views of the cosmos. The church declared the sun-centered model heretical, and an inquisition in ordered Galileo to stop promoting these views. The real blow from religious officials came in, after Galileo published a comparison of the Copernican (sun-centered) and Ptolemaic (Earth-centered) systems that made the latter's believers look foolish. They placed him under house arrest until his death in, the same year Isaac Newton was born.

The English mathematician would build on Galileo's law of inertia as he compiled a set of laws so complete that engineers still use them centuries later to navigate spacecraft across the solar system - including NASA's Galileo mission to Jupiter. - E.B.
