Abilene Paradox

"On a hot afternoon visiting in Coleman, Texas, the family is comfortably playing dominoes on a porch, until the father-in-law suggests that they take a trip to Abilene [ miles north] for dinner. The wife says, 'Sounds like a great idea.' The husband, despite having reservations because the drive is long and hot, thinks that his preferences must be out-of-step with the group and says, 'Sounds good to me. I just hope your mother wants to go.' The mother-in-law then says, 'Of course I want to go. I haven't been to Abilene in a long time.'

The drive IS hot, dusty, and long. When they arrive at the cafeteria, the food is as bad as the drive. They arrive back home four hours later, exhausted.

One of them dishonestly says, 'It was a great trip, wasn't it?' The mother-in-law says that, actually, she would rather have stayed home, but went along since the other three were so enthusiastic. The husband says, 'I wasn't delighted to be doing what we were doing. I only went to satisfy the rest of you.' The wife says, 'I just went along to keep you happy. I would have had to be crazy to want to go out in the heat like that.' The father-in-law then says that he only suggested it because he thought the others might be bored.

The group sits back, perplexed that they together decided to take a trip which none of them wanted. They each would have preferred to sit comfortably, but did not admit to it when they still had time to enjoy the afternoon".

Such a story belongs to Jerry B. Harvey's The Abilene Paradox: The Management of Agreement. Harvey himself was a managing specialist.

The paradox, at its very core, implies similar situations, in which the crowd arrives at a decision resentfully loathed by the majority of which. After all, we must have all too often found ourselves in such dead-ends.

On the whole, the phenomena can be reasoned out as we always feel a deep repugnance for those against the majority, forasmuch as we ourselves are too fearful of getting derided by others to, after all, come to agree with others' decisions. Nevertheless, every so often, their exchanging information might malfunction, thus heading everyone towards a "universal agreement"; yet dismally enough, the deepest parts of whom must be, as a rule, bellyaching about which .

This malfunctioning-exchanging-information process might lurk in the dark, in the very complaisance towards social positions, ages or relationships; in the overly squeamishness that immerse every piece of information in positive hypocriticism. These distorted inputs, after all, would determine how we frame our own "imaginary reality", from which we would act out in the "ultimate reality".

Elephant in the room, Keynesian beauty contest and the way we are preoccupied by intangible values

You must have all too heard-of the metaphorical English idiom "elephant in the room", referred to as an important or enormous topic, question, or controversial issue that is obvious or that everyone knows about but no one mentions or wants to discuss because it makes at least some of them uncomfortable or is personally, socially, or politically embarrassing, controversial, inflammatory, or dangerous.

"The Keynesian Beauty Contest", on the other hand, is the very economic concept John Maynard Keynes, an economist, constructed from his imaginary experiment.

Wherein the participants were asked to pick up the most beautiful picture from THEIR tastes. Should they have gone for, however, what the majority perceived as the most favorable, they together would win the prizes. Keynes, after all, purported that the respondents must have tilted towards the majority's taste, rather than theirs. They, upon which, must have picked up what against their wills, and all what they did back then must have been purely forestall others' decisions.

Likewise, Keynes even asserted that those immersing in the stock market must have developed a similar preference: they must have gravitated towards and purchased what-they-thought-others-would-go-for, howbeit against their own wills.

Many a study conducted afterwards leveraged the very similar concept, albeit wielding different approaches. The Planet Money channel carried out a survey, wherein one group of participants were asked to "pick the animal videos you favor the most", whilst their counterparts were to "choose the videos you-presume-that-everyone-would favor". The data, after all, indicated that merely half of the former picked the pussy cat video, whilst three third of the latter did [the same thing] .

We, to all appearances, are appearing "hypersensitive" on anticipating the majority's picks, thus somehow distorting reality [whether maliciously or not].

"Everyone is good with a ten, then why should us not go for a twenty?"

Group polarization is the term referring to the fact that a group's extreme level is always quelling that of its member. Should every member of which come to a risky decision, the entire group would appear insurmountably reckless compared to this former concept; inasmuch as should those arrive at a discreet option, they, as a whole, would turn out intentionally unobtrusive.

To put into perspective, those ardently supporting the feminist movements, once teamed up, must distort every initial dogma and head towards extremism . Studies even suggested that the grand juries did impose either more onerous or less severe punishments (were others to give a go ahead to either of which) than their former intentions .

Group polarization is emerging even more ill-favorably on online social media. To demonstrate, should those deriding Monster Box gang up and argue on us, they would unimpeachably spearhead more murderous perspectives and proclaims than their very intentions. On the other hand, every compliment, once piled up, would be cooked up way more exalted than how we actually feel.

Many a study has evidenced the very perpetuation of group extremism in political, social and legislative issues, violence, wars and dogmas. To put into perspective, one even spelt out the very multifariousness of a university's freshmen, which, however, integrated into a monochromic whole afterwards .

The group polarization orientation can be reasoned out as every member of which is tilted towards supports and evidences of their dogmas - thus the very gathering of these like-minds would end up in distorted extremism, for each member is there to further stoke that flame. After all, it might even predominate their own reality (if they do have any).

The dawn of the internet has acted as a precursor to group polarization, as groups, regardless of size, are popping up, sucking in like-minds and together becoming awfully extreme. Since they are simultaneously sticking to and resentfully loathing others, such crowds have brought about distorted subaverage dogmas, ending up either acute or dull.

Nonetheless, the world is not functioning and heading towards dead-end as straightforwardly as the afore-argued arguments. We still are leaving aside many other critical factors, to demonstrate, the correlations between conflicting groups and the somehow-harmony once many a clashing one collide. Things afterwards must arrive at its should-be equilibrium.

Should-be.

Let alone every intangible buried-deep interaction we still are heedless of, we do not even know if the society, or in micro-scale, groups might have exerted any impact on us.

After all, we are even purporting that every word and thought of ours exists genuinely, independently and is indeed OURS.
