Were the process of acquiring knowledge to become somewhat effortless, would exceptional academic performances remain as highly-valued and fruitful as in the current society?

The process of learning, to all appearances, has been all-too-crippling to every student, at any level. After all, such a process would only appear facile to those either running out of studying motivation, or all-too-often bragging of the so-called saying: "It was my fault not putting any effort in studying, had I had, I would have..."

Easy-as-a-cake, passively-acquired pieces of knowledge.

Given that not every piece of knowledge/skill is indigestible, critical ones (that distinguish one from others), as a rule, are always demanding handsome efforts.

To put into perspective, we are born with the very skills of eating and sleeping inherently genetically programmed on genomes. Born lacking no chromosome itself is a sufficient condition to gain all these "fringe benefits". Nevertheless, either using chopsticks or drinking alcohol would demand a certain amount of sophisticated praxes and practices.

Besides the pre-programmed instincts that granted every individual the minimum ability to self-sustain and maintain the race, we humans have also been born heedful of every "common sense" to survive in this very society.

Common sense (good sense) is quite an entangled concept to break down and analyze. We, thus, hereby interpret it as a form of rationality with which any ordinary person is born, bearing in us common judgments and daily decisions. The most appropriate Vietnamese translation of which might be "co duyen".

With the help of which, we have every so often arrived at decisions and certain behaviors before we could realize the situations. Everything happens as any-less-naturally, to demonstrate, the very moment we dimly catch on why a statement is incontrovertibly true, forasmuch as another is fallacious, even before any judicial judgment nor logic.

Common sense, thus, is hardly forevermore universal truths, nor is it the very silver-bullet to trailblaze us. Sill, it does make our lives (regardless of origins and intellectual levels) somewhat less crippling.

There exists a philosophical concept of "priori knowledge". They are the very knowledge we could passively gain without any learning or experiencing process. To illustrate, my very proclamation of "it took days to write this article" would get you to know that it was "neither written in nor days". Inasmuch as the next time you hear someone stating "he is an elder", you would develop some sense that "the mentioned person sounds not very young".

It might appear conspicuous, for we own the exceptional minds capable of processing those pieces of information, while many other animals, and even computer softwares do not.

To put into perspective, given that you can train your dog to lie down once you order him to "lie down", and stand up upon the order of "do not lie down", he still has no idea of the logical relationship between to "lie down" and to not. Straightforwardly enough, they attach the order to the conditioned reflex system and act in accordance with what they have been trained. In a like manner, computer softwares could hardly ever interpret that "an elder is not young", unless you have beforehand programmed them to recognize the two identical data inputs.

The opposite of such a concept is "posteriori knowledge". Such can hardly be reasoned out from in-born common sense, without any experience. After all, unless taught, we would be heedless of what happened on April.

On the whole, while instinct, common sense and priori knowledge are barely enough to eke one out a living in this inherently intangible world as an "ordinary person", posteriori has popped up as the very measure to tell the "extraordinary" apart from these.

After all, a combination of "pleasingly speaking abilities", "owning specific professional skills" and "holding profound knowledge on more-than-one areas" would be barely enough to single one out from his low-key fellow-citizens. It is indeed what ruling this world's order, notwithstanding whether this might appear somewhat unscrupulous to many an individual.

Neuroscience also sees our brains as well-designed for learning. Scientists, accordingly, found that our brains were stimulated once exposed to new things, remembering which better than every other pre-existing piece of information.

To demonstrate, a recently-built skyscraper in an all-too-familiar city would vehemently suck us in, getting us to jog through memory of the first tallest skyscraper for long afterwards. Such an effect also applies to fresh news, and new pieces of knowledge.

We, after all, are all too often captivated by new things since our brains actually react to them. Later fMRI scans did evidence changes in chemical density, and dopamine secretion - somewhat of a 'reward' hormone - which scribbles these new things for longer periods.

Nonetheless, some of what we take into our memory might appear as any less nonsense. They are there, for they are either bizarre or awe-inspiring. On the other hand,

There are many other indigestible pieces, even when we make every to 'digest' effort.

Had such sophisticated concepts as quantum physics, programming skills, classical music knowledge or ancient languages been effortlessly passively acquirable, life might have been either not-as-crippling-as or incredibly-more-arduous than today's.

That said, why have they turned out indigestible, given that we have dedicated ourselves to digest?

Quantum physics and the imaginary number i themselves belong to 'sophisticated' knowledge subgroups overlapped by (as much puzzling concepts of) "Troublesome Knowledge" and "Threshold Concepts".

There exists the so-called Constructivism educational philosophy, which emphasizes the critical significance of profundity knowledge, gained experiences and priori knowledge base, on which learners "construct" new knowledge. The role of learners, thus, is to proactively hunt down knowledge instead of sitting still, listening and passively acquiring every lecture . The dogma, after all, holds that learners themselves possess every crucial ability and opportunity to work their own ways up: their inherent characteristics.

To demonstrate, a Vietnamese student can work out the best version of himself by employing the very Vietnamese physical and intellectual characteristics, and the cultural factors driving his society. Teachers, accordingly, play the role of trailblazing him so that he would step by step polish himself up, using his already-available resources.

Nevertheless, such a philosophy has also been vehemently derided by many a scientist, including David Perkins, an education professor. Given that he himself concurred some positive arguments in such a tectonic education system, David still criticized it as "Why should we not teach students what instructors long for, instead of tucking it away as confidential pieces of knowledge", and get students to work it out on their own?

Perkins purported that students who took proactive roles and themselves dug up new knowledge might have ended up half-baked, even counterproductive, once stumbling upon some kinds of idiosyncratic scientific theories.

Such a question also suggested that an appropriate approach must have been critical in teaching - learning sophisticated issues. He thereby introduced a number of bizarre concepts referring to snags in the acquiring knowledge process, namely inert, ritual, conceptually difficult, and foreign knowledge. All of which were termed "troublesome knowledge".

Inert knowledge is tucked away in "brain attic", only wielded in special cases, to illustrate, situations when one is defied by a riddle or a direct clue. Still, for the most part, such knowledge would lie still, covered in vain dust. Recalling the exact score of World Cup finals might appear "bizarre"; yet of literally no use except for once-in-a-blue-moon friend hangouts.

Perkins, on the whole, perceived much of the curriculum as inert knowledge, coming into light in forms of either historical dogmas, society structures or some eccentric sociological studies.

Students, after all, are taught of scientific praxes, howbeit of literally no practical value, similar to the very way maths has long been taught as irrelevant to other subjects and reality.

By the book, ritual knowledge is ritual and as much hollow: the way we name everything and date historical events, or the very formula of "multiplying" two fractions.

This kind of knowledge does get on our nerves, for they actually bear no intrinsic meaning. We, thus, have many a time questioned every universal piece of knowledge. After all, the very nonsense of ritual knowledge has crippled the learners' memorizing ability, inasmuch as these 'self-acquired' qualitative thinking habits themselves would breed distortion and misinterpretation to the input information.

Instead of splitting up, those rituals, thus, hitch on and box in one's learning process. On the other hand, conceptually difficult knowledge, those indigestible to those of ordinary thinking abilities, has overflooded pre-university education; especially math and science's. As students, I myself did find the so-called "speed of light" somewhat puzzling, and the fact that a -ton orb falls at the speed of a feather rather unimaginable.

Such a confusion might have originated from misleading impressions on everyday objects and inaccurate estimates (heavy objects fall more swiftly than light ones). We, as a rule, are heedless of the fact that scientists see problems through sophisticated and abstract lenses (such as force vectors) instead of "bare eyes"; forasmuch as no teacher would ever urge students to refrain from emotional thinking whilst studying science.

Conceptually difficult knowledge might evolve into ritual knowledge once the learners get the definitions, but not really the nature of problems. Given that students can memorize e = mc^, insomuch as the teachers may leverage the inherent scoring/testing systems to ensure this "memorizing" skill, it still is as much dubious whether the students have truly got the concepts of e, m, c and the very way to apply which in other formulas.

Last but not least, foreign knowledge is the very pieces of information going violently against one's perspective. To put into perspective, Catholic youngsters have bitterly struggled against the fact that humans had evolved from ancient apes (formerly bacteria), in alignment with the theory of evolution. In a like manner, quantum physics is somewhat of this foreign knowledge group, for, to all appearances, it appears indeed "foreign" and eccentric to our daily lives.

Following Perkins' perspective, J.H.F "Erik" Mayer and Ray Land introduced the so-called "Threshold concepts" ; a "gate" to a whole new way of thinking previously unapproachable among learners.

The acquisition of knowledge has thresholds at which we are DISTORTED in worldview, neither REVERSIBLE to the old way of thinking, INTEGRATABLE to the old knowledge, inert knowledge, background knowledge to create a more complete perspective ADVANCABLE to high culture level from pop culture and BECOME TROUBLESOME.

(Capitalized words were formerly italicized in the original documents).

To put into perspective, DISTORTION is a turning point in understanding, interpreting or recognizing a problem without which it is difficult for the learner to progress. The two authors give the example that when grasping the principles of heat transfer, a person's perception of cooking will likely change, and they will begin to be more interested in even cookware instead. Only materials and processing methods.

On the other hand, once breached the threshold of knowledge, perceptions on everything would be fixed. A bizarre metaphor for which is Adam and Eve eating the forbidden fruit. Given that such a "dim-witted" behavior might have permanently banished the two from the garden of Eden, it has still won back for humans knowledge and free will.

Still, we could hardly turn a blind eye to the very fact that the threshold itself has hampered the process of acquiring knowledge and one's lifetime development, as afore-argued.

How should we step up?

After all, what are the purposes of insights into the difficulties of knowledge? Is there a well-trodden path to extraordinary, as afore-argued at the beginning of this article?

No.

The more cripplingly arduous studying gets, the duller we have become. To put into perspective, given that we have been all-too-often sucked in new, awe-inspiring things, the burden of learning has granted us every reason to not-digest-new-knowledge, since they are barely as "appealing" as other less "labor-intensive" knowledge.

Which, as an an irreversible process, have breached the very thresholds, and distorted our perceptions towards this world.

A meta-analysis on counter-intuitive beliefs studies concluded that toddlers (around kindergarten ages) were all-too-skeptical of, thus, putting forward counterintuitive things, while older children and adults counted on what they had been told of. Even infants denied things wrongly taught to them, and actively corrected those errors.

Nevertheless, children are also "Tory" on the events they did not see by their own eyes. A survey on whether these phenomena can occur: "some look for crocodiles under the bed" and "some draw polka dots on planes" revealed that most -year-olds articulated such as no-way, -year-olds purported that half of which might have been true, forasmuch as adults asserted that both of which might have actually taken place.

Other experiments conducted to assess the level of skepticism among toddlers, older children and adults on psychological, biological and physical issues also yielded pretty much similar results. A number of other experiments even concluded that children were forevermore skeptical of whatever they are told of.

Some, on the other hand, argued that skepticism might have been critical to children. After all, not all the information they hear is true, some may be inadvertently biased from an adult's ignorance, linguistic misunderstandings, "heedless words"; or intentionally for fun/fraud.

Were children to count on whatever they are told of, their knowledge base would end up alarmingly feeble. Skepticism, however, lays the very stable knowledge foundation, on which they themselves might stave off deception - a smart, in-born, inherent mechanism to secure our future and somehow get us to stay away from unscrupulous goals, even before we could articulate the very first words.

Such a counterintuitive mechanism, as a rule, would cripple the young in acquiring knowledge beyond their comprehension and intuition. On the other hand, the openness of adults is "open enough" to get us to believe in things we might have been heedless of (atoms, theories of evolution or deities' existence).

Nonetheless, there are still rooms for wide-eyed minds to flourish, forasmuch as adult beliefs can be as easily maneuvered. Other studies in the report also evidenced that those wide-eyed beliefs in magic were contingent upon how well the story had been told, how violent the counterintuition was, who had trailblazed them, and whether such a story could have stirred up some emotions.

Researchers, thus, concluded that counterintuitive beliefs could appear more engaging and trustworthy, should it satisfy our thirst for mental reliefs. That is why the very protection from some Brobdingnagians appear somewhat compelling to individuals in existential crises. In a like manner, knowing we are about to die (which children are heedless of), an afterlife bigot would simmer down our crippling nerves.

After all, scientific knowledge, let alone its indigestible, counterintuitive and unimaginable nature, does hardly bear any tangible benefits (take quantum physics for example, why should we need such a thing?). It even warps humans into a bitter, nonsensical and deadpan reality, wherein they would have nowhere to turn to, and no reason to weather storms.

We, thus, hurt for a strong-enough mentality.

With which we have never been born.
