"The children now love luxury; they have bad manners, contempt for authority; they show disrespect for elders and love chatter in place of exercise. Children are now tyrants, not the servants of their households. They no longer rise when elders enter the room. They contradict their parents, chatter before company, gobble up dainties at the table, cross their legs, and tyrannize their teachers." (Socrates.)

The perennial "hostility"

Buying into his predecessor's time-honored argument, Horace - the very Roman poetry subsisting by BC - also voiced his grief, sublimely, albeit as critically, portraying "the progeny" back then: "Our sires' age was worse than our grandsires'. We, their sons, are more worthless than they; so in our turn we shall give the world a progeny yet more corrupt."

After all, generations of "progenies" must have found themselves purely scapegoats in their predecessors' fierce criticism, which, along with many a grievance and nagging, has long sneaked upon the Millennials, and sooner or later Z-gens.

From every bold topical headline to influential figures' statement, "our modern progeny are..." has all too often signalled the very manifestation of belittling criticism following afterwards. After all, it seems that either superficiality, apathy, insolency, over-indulgence, loathful fashion, aloofness to reading or the very splurges all-too-tied-up to "the modern progeny" was also tagged on every "progeny" prior to our generation. To all appearances, is youth, audacity and experience dearth indeed the should-have-been-nagged-at sitting ducks?

For the bellyache has appeared unceasingly perennial after millennia, let us puzzle over another crippling question: why are people, for the most part, always appearing woefully intolerable to youngsters?

The criticism cycle

Stormed by such a preconception, John Protzko, a psychologist from University of Santa Barbara, California once puzzled over the very perception bias on how every progeny is inherently inferior to their parents.

To evidence which, he turned developmental psychologist experts - those holding profundity on the juvenile's psychological, emotional and cognitive changes as each individual worked his way up in life. Given the renowned marshmallow experiment; Protzko got these experts to anticipate whether the young back then could outperform their predecessors in quelling temporary seduction.

On the whole, % of whom claimed that children must have got downgraded at the ability, whilst the rest % did go for the opposite anticipation. Strikingly enough, field experiments, however, went violently against the bias, evidencing that "progenies" did outrun their grandparents, who were at their ages half a century ago. This, after all, spelt out the woeful fact that even experts failed to anticipate the young's actual performance.

Nevertheless, in another study, Protzko and his colleagues unveiled the very reasons behind the phenomenon: as every individual tilted towards nitpicking their progeny's constraints, [which, however, have been polished up as one works his own way up], their memory bias would, thereupon, lay those on thick and compare which to their young versions, thus revidifying a "sublime generation". Wielding such a scope to modern youngsters, after all, must have spearheaded the very feeling that these "frail juveniles" were taking down a peg.

To put into perspective, the experiment did report that the normative were inclined to the preconception that the young had paid, if any, little respect to their predecessors; whilst voracious readers purported that words could have no longer appealed to juveniles; forasmuch the high achievers in some former short IQ tests presumed that their pregony must have been less intellectually prominent.

In a high attempt to debunk these myths, the psychologist argued that as individuals, they had woefully lacked objective evidence, to demonstrate, on the young's reading patterns, in accordance with theirs. The only data they could ever turn to was personal memories and experiences - which, given their inherent presentism bias, did morph into the very norms [on which they judge others]. Worse still, their comments would turn out somewhat hypercritical, were the seniors to "lecture" what they seem unrivalled at.

To bear out which, the researchers set up an experiment to size up the number of texts the participants had digested. They deliberately gave falsifiable evaluation, which "struck" on these 
"predecessors" that their reading patterns were hardly "insurmountable". These subjects, thus, unsurprisingly arrived at less belittling comments, forasmuch as the preconception on the juveniles' ill-favored reading habits did as well die away. In other words, had the adults been heedful that they had been as "lethargic", the preconception would have been instead projected into the very memories wherein their pregonies "must have been as diffident".

Protzko, after all, stressed that presentism bias is rarely the only factor to drive adults deriding their descendants. Others reason it out as either the superficial phrase must have been a perennial cultural identity, or we humans have been all-too-tilted towards anticipating the past as "forevermore heydays".

The very mumbo jumbo [instead of generational] gap

Others, however, could always turn to another "critical factor" behind this "modern pregony" issue and every ideological conflict in-between a multi-generational society - the unbridgeable generation gap.

Developed by the famous anthropologist Margaret Mead, this concept can be simply defined as differences (or distances) in values, attitudes, and behaviors among members. of the old and the young. This term was used to explain the conflict between parents and children within a single family, but gradually became popular and received special attention in the s and s, as all-too-often referred to in a multitude of books, whilst newspapers prevailed on the very differences between "baby boomers" and their parents . After all, it must have evolved into a problem that managers, and every Brobdingnagian must zero in as X-ers and Y-ers begin sneaking upon the workforce.

In fact, this so-called "gap" must originate from the oral pop culture other than any scientific theoretical system. Either the "silent generation", "baby boomers", Gen X or Gen Y, after all, have turned out purely taxonomies coined by Pew Research; besides many other classifications feasting on the very time gap between generations.

During the last decade, the US Army funded a generational meta-analysis study on how to suck the young in serving the military - purporting that wars and economic upheavals had shaped the generations bearing with distinctive traits. To illustrate, there existed the very preconception that the Vietnam war did shape Baby Boomers' materialistic lifestyle, else millennials could only develop their overly narcissistic and job-hopping personal traits for they are backed by helicopter parents - those all-too-zeroing-in their children, thus looking after every aspect of whom.

After all, given that major social events do appear impeachable to every human; still, they could hardly get us to arrive at a universal formula for every generation - inasmuch as the study findings  also arrived at a similar conclusion: there exist little, if any, generational differences in such job-related factors as job satisfaction, commitment level and job-hopping intentions. Many other works did also come to such a conclusion , one of which even asserted that there existed no sufficiently grounded theory behind these differences.

Nevertheless, I myself would take differences as every other little thing. Given that even small groups would all too often find their member ideologically conflicting; that those born at different time going wildly against each others must appear any less straightforward.

Every child is ending up seniors, who, thus, are hard-wired to nagging. After all, aren't we, millennials, wielding up "shuddersome glances" at the Z gens?

Whilst boxing ourselves in a vicious circle, wherein we are turning nose up at any others. Tucked away in our very perception is the very preconception that others are doomed meagre and woefully below par, yet heedless that we are actually perceived as those desperate "others" to others.

Or worse, to our own perception.


