Descending on the planet severely lacking freedom, we still are assuring ourselves that we owned more of which than any other.

Mark W. Moffett, a zoologist zeroing in social groups (including humans'), asserted that even Afghans must have been wide-eyedly purported that they were savoring the 'state-granted freedoms', given that such 'freedoms' were somewhat eccentric to Americans [and people elsewhere].

This concept is also creeping upon us, as these supreme whites have perpetuated the calls for "a-little-more-democracy" within Vietnam, wherein our Vietnamese compatriots, however, have all too often derided their "redundant democracy".

Then arrived the pandemic, storming the entire world, yet reasoning out such a statement. Whilst democrat Brobdingnagians have been perpetually dogged with unjustifiable defeats, Vietnam has stepped up and handsomely halted the cataclysm.

Leaving aside the very social corrupts in-between the pandemic, we, in general, have done a phenomenally good job, forasmuch as local newspapers and social networks have alongside evidenced our grateful, laid-back manners, when set side by side with the rest of this world.

But why?

Freedom, democracy and option 'emancipations' might have bred a series of "paradoxes".

By , Barry Schwartz, an American psychologist unveiled his book "The paradox of choice: why less is more?", which put forward a notion that Americans were doomed woefully desperate for they were boxed in by so many options.

He referred to an inordinate number of examples, along with many a modern psychological study indicating that every living activity indeed dogged Americans with a bit of angst, resentment and dissatisfaction towards their having-too-many-options .

To put into perspective, he argued that the so-called "patient autonomy" did exert adverse impacts on the patients, instead of giving them a helping hand. The autonomy, accordingly, is a general convention that patients own the very rights to pick up their own treatment methods, whilst healthcare providers are to merely propose the methods, instead of ever opting for which on account of the patients.

Imagining the doctors, given your ill health and unease, purely present to you a list of options, instead of giving you any proper treatment (given that you hardly own any piece of medical knowledge, inasmuch as you are rarely in the right mind to give any decision). Nor can them to pick up the optimal option on account of yourselves, for that would go wildly against the laws. This, after all, would not only worsen the patient's insecurity, but also distort any other medical ethical values.

Even when the autonomy was adopted for the patient's' own sake, it still is vehemently controversial, thus, getting ever-modified to fit in the international medical community.

Barry Schwartz, in a like manner to us, admitted that self-control and freedom, on the whole, were crucial to on's mental health and happiness. He, however, also asserted that choice redundancy would get him to end up miserable.

That all-too-often turning to our autonomy might appear any less backbreaking, as we could hardly spare any time on mindful decisions. We hereby arrive at an incontrovertible truth: given hours a day, the more decisions boxing in your way, the less time and mindfulness you would have left for each.

To all appearances, we must come to many a decision, from what to wear (not counting uniforms), what to eat, and a woefully wide range of other things: partners popping up inquiring us of which to pick up, or colleagues asking us of which approach to set out. Not to mention the minor effortless, there are actually tasks where freedom alone would get them so-much-more-arduous.

We, thus, have every so often hurted for someone making decisions on account of us (take, for example, Batman's Alfred butler). This also reasons out the very compromise of "whatsoever" after days of slogging through choices.

Another 'misery' behind such a redundancy of choice is the left-behind, which is actually critical. The variety of which, from dress, furniture, fashion to opting for partners also are creeping upon us, stirring up shame, and unknown feelings on the chosen, along with the left out.

The human society, on the one hand, has offered us many an option, on the other hand, getting us to end up in a situation, wherein we could spare no room for every of which, thus storming us, who would in turn long for the 'barely enough' choices.

After all, this multifariousness has been any less suffering, for every human is born with that very right.

We would be awfully regretful of our left-behind options, who afterward appeared so-much-more-sublime by their new partners. Worse still, we are even dogged by the trivial feelings of the opposite person calling out more-appealing-than-what-we-have-just-ordered dishes, of our friends tracking down any less appropriate study majors, then savoring better apartments, at more bargaining prices.

On the other hand, since we are boxed in by many an option, there must be someone behind which. At the very core, this society rule that everyone must beforehand prepare others as-many-options to opt from. We, thus, are splurging our time at fuelling redundancy, even when it has breached the very tipping point.

It seems unimpeachable that we would hardly go for 'many options' rather than 'none' or coerced situation. Still, how "many" is enough, else redundant, forasmuch as who are the ones to rule this?

We, after all, have got no answer to which. To date, there have only been books that instruct people on to live either a minimalistic or stoic life (which are both well-sold), struggling against such a freedom to hunt down a more disciplined life, peace and happiness for ourselves. We, thus, have barely eked out microscopic solutions to which, bitterly conceding that it still is a macroscopic concern.

So is freedom. The fact that every human is savoring far-reaching areas of democracy and freedom, lest they thrive on a truly prosperous democratic society (in which there are enough social spaces for everyone's freedom), otherwise, someone's inherent rights might throw cold water on our own feelings. We are free, and so are others, then the conflicts of interest are doomed [to happen sooner or later].

On the whole, it seems unimpeachable that freedom and democracy, regardless of any country, own the never-absolute natures bounded within certain limits. In other simplified words, our very descending upon a society itself deprives us of freedom. The very inflation of freedom limitations within the "allowed" zones, thus, does hardly spell out whether something is scrupulous. Every so often, it even backfires.

After all, we could never compare the two countries and purport one as better than the other, barely since one is 'more democrat'.

To put into perspective, in such a society tolerating freedom deviating so far away from general standards as the US, the freedom of the extreme left might all too often get on the extreme right's nerves - even when the freedom they savor is interchangeable to the other's. States that allow for religious and sexual freedom, as a rule, can hardly escape the very conflicts between Catholics abortion-dissidents and -supporters.

In a like manner, people are acting as if what they-are-allowed-to-commit is sapient, whilst others' are not, take, for example, bringing guns to school, or the young's ridiculous outfits. They are leveraging moral arguments to reason out their own behaviors, and deride others' (heedless that morality itself is purely a convention among social groups).

To put into perspective, within a society tolerating freedom of speech, those of opposing dogmas are doomed frustrated at the other's existence, purporting that he must be enjoying the 'true' righteous freedom of speech, whilst his very rival must be overly profiteering freedom.

Vietnam in the dawn of choice redundancy.

Given a 'more open' market economy and the dawn of 'more freedom' over pre-period, Vietnamese are surely 'savoring' the very experience of getting dogged by Paradox of Choice.

We, after all, should then sit back, jogging our mind of the old saying of "the good old days", and the documentary on a period of stability and vivacity, howbeit burdensome.

Schwartz's book indeed referred to many studies, concluding that the more options, the more prone Americans were to depression and forlornness. Such a miserable dead end can be reasoned out as we, as a rule, would beforehand scheme the 'wisest', most bargaining and most efficacious decision.

After all, the more options, the more backbreaking every task would morph into.

Given the pandemic situation, Vietnamese' constrained political options are, however, what delights them the most.

To put into perspective, whilst the US and European countries were still being stormed by unceasing protests and world-class conferences on whether to wear masks or not, Vietnamese were in a laid-back manner, calmly waiting for government's instructions. A series of directives on masks, social distancing and isolation following shortly afterward did hardly encounter any objections.

Inasmuch as democrats savor their perplexing, overflooded with choices life, centralized government would, on the other hand, appear all too handsome during natural disasters and epidemics - the very moments we hold no choice, thus driven by the majority's.

During the entire pandemic, all they did were sitting still, reading news and surfing the social media, expressing unease with the scabby sheeps. They neither had much time, nor will to puzzle over instructions

On the other hand, given the Vietnamese's freedom and democracy, which halts the very behavior of distorting 'freedom' and spoil the collective. In fact, the pandemic did witness purely the majority quelling the stubborn scabby sheeps.

After all, whether such an overwhelm is appropriate in normal state (I myself loathe the concept of crowd seizing supreme power), it has stood out as a saving grace during hardships - times when few variables are available and the crowds are somehow centralized.

Should this crowd behavior get embraced?

Paradox of Tolerance and the very price of freedom.

Paradox of Tolerance is put forward as a philosophical question on whether "a society of absolute tolerance actually exists".

Karl Popper,a philosopher, argued that every tolerant society would end up spoiled by the intolerant, and the others, thus, could hardly tolerate them to ultimately pursue a tolerant social order.

Tolerance, after all, underlies that it is to tough out even the intolerant. Nevertheless, as these, in turn, would corrupt such a society anyway, is tolerance actually of some meaning to the collective goodness?

After all, tolerance still is doomed in intolerance; forasmuch as a complaisant society would always spare some intolerance rooms for the unscrupulous. Its tolerance toward these 'scabby sheeps', otherwise, would cease itself to exist.

In a like manner, freedom of speech would, after all, pave the very way for speech restrictions. Were we to leave no room for 'taboos', such a freedom would catalyze the unscrupulous profiteers' spoiling that society.

This is critical, once we put forward freedom in every debate. Many are bragging of is as an absolute dictated order God imposed on humans, thus heedless of the fact that this society rules and bears such a threshold - for the sake of the majority.

The world, thus, would never tough out any close-enough-to-universal-level democracy or freedom. After all, is there actually a basis, on which some countries might freely brag of their freedom and deride the others'? How could they know were they savoring 'better democracy' systems or not?

Rather, zero in compliance, and reckon with how people, history, culture, and prevailing social values thrive on such freedoms. This world, after all, is never as straightforward as one is free, while others ar quelled. We might every so often savor our "freedom", yet purporting others are desperately suffering, even when we are yet in their situations.

Are we actually free, or tickled pink? Hunt down an answer for ourselves, and remember looking up to others'.
