I purport that we humans are somewhat dim-witted at estimating. We are always either puffing up or "selling-short" our very existence, and this alone has bred all kinds of misery in life.

On the one hand, we have all too often puffed up our significances, dully heedless of the fact that billion others are also inhabiting the planet and billions of which might have quelled our lowkey "importance". We otherwise assume that the very period we descend on this planet should have been sublime and substantial to it, thus blind to another incontrovertible truth that years is purely a drop in the 'universe' ocean of billion years in age.

Nevertheless, we have every so often tolerated the invasion of lower-than-low self-esteem that belittles our already-fragile-mind. After all, we have all too often found ourselves pooping by midnight, surrounded by walls, woefully pondering our living purposes in-between cavernous spaces and dimensions. Another time, we might end up puzzling over the reasons behind our sitting still in a toilet, reading some gloomy Monster Box articles, inasmuch as those at our ages are hanging out in bars, enjoying youth, and elsewhere Western children are enjoying their own roles in Stranger Things.

Stay schooled on too many things, after all, is only bearing crippling burdens.

During the very moments of painfully excreting feces in some wild picturesque fields, the only nerves the prehistoric might have got was whether some lions would have creeped upon, and disturbed them or not. This can be reasoned out from animal observations, wherein domestic cats still are keeping the very habit of covering feces with soil, or not excreting at unsavory places to avoid getting tracked by natural enemies, forasmuch sloths have all too often ceased themselves to exist upon landing on the ground to poop .

Some scientists have even theorized that our ability to control bowel movements (either the nervous system, or anal spasm is so well-designed that we ourselves could decide where, when, and how to excrete. It, thus, is an evolutionary upper hand over predators, for human faeces are inherently rich in bacteria and volatile odor.

Nonetheless, given such an exceptional capability, excretion/urination themselves were as straightforward as the coeval social structure. As a rule, since lands were vast, and people were scarcely distributed, pooping had never been a priority. Then arrived the agricultural revolution, in which people settled down and formed dense community, wherein excretion must have been an awful nightmare. To all appearances, the less food and wild animals got on their nerves, the more time they had, to splurge on other issues.

Which was crippling, for the entire community had the same demand [to excrete], insomuch as they were perpetually addressing it on steadfast place. They knew all too well that they could not have pooped, covered it up, and walked away as they did in the past. Community life also bred many issues alongside, on, to demonstrate, "pooping manners", which got us to bear others in mind upon excreting, inasmuch as the dawn of classism itself did diversify the way everyone excrete [differently from others].

Defying such a theory might have been arduous, for every little thing in the historical flow, from humans' excrement to other subtler issues have been done away with, whilst we have got solely moderate information since the early settlement. Scientists proposed that the first toilet had been invented by Mesopotamians around the late th millennium BC. Archaeological evidence, however, evidences that many a 'civilized' human did defecate in either jars or vacant grounds .

The ancient (and great) Greek Empire had more of an intriguing hygiene culture. Brobdingnagian rooms were leveraged as public toilets, wherein people sat on 'toilet platforms' facing each other. They 'shared' moments of going poo-poo, and even the same pieces of toilet paper . Still, do never puzzle over privacy, for back then, it was a concept yet to emerge.

Nor toilet paper.

Not until the end of the th century did Chinese came up with such a thing as toilet paper. Researchers reported that prior to that watershed moment, humans did leverage everything-they-had to wipe their ass, literally. Some civilizations either wielded seashells or shared ass-wiping tools (similar to the Greeks), which had formerly been made of moss/leaves, in combination with shredded ceramic pieces. The rest put to use either furs, pieces of cloth, leaves, grass, corncob, snow, and even bare hands (water was taken for granted).

The agricultural revolution did, however, also stir up classism, which ruled that some might have savored the so-called "ass-wiping privileges".

Strikingly enough, introduced onto the British Medical Journal was an anonymous year-old glass cup with patterns of a man wiping another's ass .

The UK did indeed witness officials in charge of the kings' defecating activities. Those holding such positions were from lower-upper aristocracy, savoring handsome incomes and special privileges - rewards in forms of the king's old clothes and belongings, the rights to stay in palaces. Not until did Edward VII do away with such a tasteless title.

(To date, the Dalit in the Indian society - the lowest class, are even maneuvered to collect others' feces).

During urbanization, in contrast to the cooked-up handsome far West America cities, the roads back then were overflooded with faeces, from both humans and horses. The excretion was so awful and crippling that even pigs were utilized to clean. On the rainy days, the Far West was all-too-often described with epical scenes: "People set boards on the glutinous layers of mud, every so often, upon stepping on which, the bizarre black-and-green slime spewed out in-between the crevices"," the sewer was filled with waste, where even the pigs sniffed their nose due to the horribly disgusting smell".

Inadequate waste treatment, given the thriving urbanization during the th century, did act as a precursor to perpetuated cholera and dysentery. A former series of public European-quality toilets filled with rodents could also have been the very 'mainspring' of plague outbreaks. People were, as a rule, heedless of which. Even the sharpest scholars purported that the cataclysm must-have-originated from the "poison gas" stirred up from the jam-packed cities (since they were as much heedless of bacteria - the spark of unhygienic conditions) .

The first underground sewer systems in Chicago, however, shouldered that perpetuated unhygienic burden. Nonetheless, such a system led those unhygienic waste directly to rivers. Shortly afterward, epidemics made their very "comebacks" as rivers became spoiled (given that they were the main source of domestic water). Things, after all, only got somewhat less crippling once people unveiled lime chloride as a water-filtering element.

The so-called 'pooping' nightmare, however, still are prevailing in cramped, yet poorly-planned cities and slums. WHO did report that over two billion people had coevally never got a toilet for themselves, thus ending up dying away from infectious diseases. Still, you may gain some invaluable insights into such places upon either witnessing them with your bare eyes, or scrutinizing photos of old-school Hong Kong apartments.

Defecating, howbeit submissive and dull (even somewhat redundant in modern world), owns the very strait-laced requirements which have all too often get under our skins. We, as a rule, are prioritizing spaces and infrastructures for such an activity, to ascertain that it is hardly violating any other living activities - to demonstrate, eating, sleeping or working.

Defecation does not only disgust us every time we jog our memory through it (for we are hard-wired to loathe what we perceive as pitfalls), it is indeed cripplingly risky (take, for example, stomach ache during examination and work, running into bowel-related issues, or spoiling the environment)

Still, should we, after all cast it - somewhat of own biological instincts - off?

The dawn of such a sophisticated society has not only turned defecation into a macro problem, but also offered a silver-bullet to which, given that during which, it demanded "sacrifices". We are seemingly getting dead-close to the spiritual life fueled by the modern society, thus hurting for as-least-annoying-biological-instincts-as-possible. People have all too often casted out eating, sleeping, and even defecating since those get on their nerves, occupying their precious time and interrupting other living activities.

Worse still, we are also turning down other inherent instincts as sadness, depression, anger, procrastination and despair. These have been tagged as either vainless or counterproductive, for they go wildly against social necessity, howbeit primitive, biological and original.

We cannot know whether pooping or negative biological emotions will later be stripped away because they make us uncomfortable and cause troubles. And of course, it is unknown whether everything was still as happy and "living" as the moments when we sat in the toilet in the middle of the night to think about existential problems?

Nowadays, the development of science has been solving most of the problems of poop, making them small problems that do not need to be bothered. We now have more time to take care of other things, such as research on how to pee the ancients, how to handle astronauts' faeces, and fecal implants in medicine. or even using waste to make art.

In a like manner to the former 'defecation classism', the very dawn of cutting-edge technologies still are not addressing every underlying problem alongside. Since the current human society has yet to reach the optimal structure, millions have been splu are poured into technology to help astronauts defecate, more than two billion others still do not have toilets to use. and so many people have to die for this.

The faults are by no means in either the astronauts, the scientists, the politicians, the rich, or the ordinary (ourselves). Were we to nitpick and blaspheme someone, all the faults must have originated from us. Why should we ever do such a thing, given many an inherently entangled factor behind?

Why should we ever splurge our precious time on blaming it on others, purely to sigh in relief that we were not the scabby sheeps, instead of addressing all the faults and share the crippling burdens with the inherently woeful lives?

After all, given that our life is short, inasmuch as that of the universe, as always, is long-winded, our existence is hardly vainless. There must be, to all appearances, places where you belong, and the people hurting for your generous helping hands.

Since everything is less important once we sense the urge to defecate, savor defecation as a sign of your liveliness, washing your hands afterwards, and continuing your very adventures.
