The First Agricultural Revolution (circa BC) must have served as a watershed moment in the entire human history timeline.

Surrounded by either wheat, maze or rice fields, the very first forms of community thriving on agriculture did pave every way for the dawn of human civilization. Piece by piece, private properties had ousted the former primitive society and egalitarianism. The obsessive concept of private properties did as well violently prosper and fan the very flames of classism, constituting and framing social characteristics towards entanglements. To put into perspective, it was the very models of smaller units - villages - which gave grounds for broader institutional concepts to catch on - cities, government and politics.

In a like manner, the primitive lifestyle hard-wired to lands, crops and the superficial vision of "what might come tomorrow" had as well been transitioned to the deep-rooted outlooks onto the next crops and the very primordial concept of stockpile, which, in turn, acted as a precursor to the thrifts of new lines of work and innovative techniques. After all, the primitive always-on-the-go nomads must have rarely thought of why they would have had to come up with such an unwieldy, clamorous machine as a printer.

What we can pick up from the entire historical/agricultural flow is that the food crops did somehow emancipate us from the ill-fated and arduous hunter-gathering lives, getting the prehistoric to move out from the dark caves to advance to the earliest forms of modern society. After all, the First Agricultural Revolution must have been a great leap forward to our very haydays, cropping up in the very form of the fruitful domestication of new food and flower crops.

Or mustn't it? To all appearances, it might have been the very bitter dead end humans did run into. In a like manner, we might have always taken pride in the mighty printers to fan out knowledge and self-deceived ourselves that they must have been critical to human civilization, given the fact that we might have enjoyed a better life without the invention.

In his "Homo sapiens", Yuval Noah Harari indeed argued that the Revolution had been de facto a lavish "mousetrap", the worst fraud; and that humans had made an awfully wrong decision upon transitioning to farming and agricultural production. This against-the-current view is actually an old-school concept, having latently existed and been as much controversial among academics. Prior to Harari, Jared Diamond did also pose the very same question in his "Guns, Germs, Steel". After all, there have been quite a number of studies going wildly against the common-sense optimistic perspective on the Agricultural Revolution.

A quantity-over-quality deal with the d-e-v-i-l?

To put into perspective, once anticipated as to lead farmers to a laidback and loose-fitting life, agriculture, in particular its cultivation sub-branch does, however, turn out what dogs them with many an arduous field work. They, thereupon, have had to plow, seed, fertilize and irrigate crops, pay close attention to weak seedlings to safeguard them from pests, miserably thirst for rains and get wary of the weather. As far as can be seen, they must have been worse dogged by burdensome agricultural tasks, thus, sparing much less idle time than their hunter-gathering ancestors .

Given that agriculture indeed leverages food production, it does hardly go hand in hand with a bettered food security. To any crowded farming community, a poor crop must have been far more atrocious than the trace-loss of some deers in the hunting season, to any hunter-gathering community. The problem is whilst each agriculture purely relies on certain major food crops; we had formerly had many other backup alternatives; inasmuch as any primitive farming community must have been woefully thirsted for more crops (for they had been so "violently" reproduced during fruitful crops so that their descendants would have served as the labor for agricultural production) than the primordial communities.

Studies have evidenced that hunter-gatherer groups thriving on warmer climates were less frequently stormed by famines than any farming communities.

On the other hand, the improved food production it brings about has hardly catalyzed better diets. The very first farmers were physically weak and even malnourished when set side by side with their ancestors. As a rule, they had frail physiques, and "evolved" to be more susceptible to diseases.

Indeed, the lifestyle and diet changes bred from the transition to agricultural production did spearhead many a severe health problem: due to the increase in the carbohydrates intake in the diet, dental health was the first to deteriorate; with the most obvious manifestations back when were the prevalence of dental caries and antemortem tooth loss.

The diets centering a constrained number of food and grain crops could get any less malnutritious than the hunter-gatherers' full-bodied menu, thus, woefully holding back agricultural children development. To further fuel the flames, the farming that demanded intense physical activities did as well breed osteoarthritis-related diseases, to demonstrate, arthritis, osteoporosis and spinal degeneration.

After all, they serve as the main arguments violently against the Agricultural Revolution. Ridiculously enough, the very decision to abandon the hunter-gatherer lifestyle having formerly thrived for millennium to turn to "treading water" and self-torture themselves with arduous field work has turned out any less absurd.

On the other hand, why and how humans have domesticated plants have since been burning questions. Together with the aforementioned contradictory perspective, we can interpret it as: how have food crops, to name a few, wheat, barley, cassava and maize sucked in humans' voluntary attentiveness and "jones" for them (in another word, domesticated humans)?

Upon analyzing domesticated plants, scientists did spell out many a genetic change that bred profound differences in morphological characteristics between them and their wild ancestors. They coined this set of physiological and structural changes is "domestication syndrome" .

The most common among which were either the dissipation of seed shattering among some cereal crops, shortened seed dormancy periods (which got them to "hibernate" under adverse environmental conditions), or a sharp increase in both sizes and number of seeds. Other potential changes include the fruit skin thinnedness and toxin reduction among legume and tuber crops .

Through manual selections, such traits have piece by piece been strengthened, thus, violently soaring their own values. To put into perspective, corn has been made times larger, contain higher sugar content, and easier to grow and peel off than that of years ago. In a like manner, a few thousand years of savoring humans' attentive care, peaches have grown times bigger in size, more juicy and sweeter than their wild-growing counterparts . Bizarrely enough, these plants have prospered and self-improved their own values, therefore, giving us a sham feeling that the attentive cultivation would sooner or later pay off.

Nevertheless, many a recent genetic study have evidenced that the very changes in domesticated plant traits have, in all likelihood, resulted from natural selection instead of deliberate manual selections . Which has got us to no further than miserable failures to address the mysterious origins of agriculture and plant domestication.

By serving us with most flavorful fruits, these plants have seemingly succeeded in seducing and enslaving humans as their "obedient servants". Paradoxically, there have even been cereal crops so "supercilious" that they have self-relinquished their self-pollination capability to purely "assign" humans with the very task of reproduction.

Straightforwardly enough, they have every reason to do so, for the existence of the two-feet on-top-of-the-food-chain creatures have since been desperately contingent upon some plants. To all appearances, we are savoring the very plant-predominant diets. % of the human calorie consumption is preoccupied by merely plants, % of which are wheat, rice and corn . After all, we had better reconsider who is actually the ones to "domesticate".

To domesticate plants, humans have been as much "domesticated".

To any extent, the very presumption that food crops have given us "the greatest fraud" under the lavish name of "Agricultural Revolution" still is a personal argument, thus, needed more persuasive evidence. Even if we have indeed fallen for it, we still have every reason not to rage. To a certain extent, plants have forevermore overwhelmed humans. Without ever jogging through the long-winded history, we still know all too well how "plant-subservient" we are from every breath.

Let alone the photosynthesis function that offered the oxygen amount critical for life and climate regulation, the vast vegetation also acts as a precursor to biodiversity, providing the very shelters and foods for many other creatures to thrive on this planet. To humans, it as well serves as a precious supply source of materials for apparel-garment, construction and other industries.

Without valuable medicinal plants, human civilization must have been "civilized" in a very different direction. To demonstrate, quinine - the plant leveraged by the Andean indigenous to curb fever (Peruan "Jesuit flour") - was later introduced to Europe, thus, saving an inordinate number of lives, remaining the only effective remedy for malaria until the twentieth century. Forasmuch as the British could only have conquered India, thanks to the control of this deadly disease back then sweeping through the country, through the opening of quinine farms.

As a rule, many others have even bred human irrational reliances. Just step up and take a closer look into cigarettes, marijuana, poppies and other narcotic plants that contain psychoactive substances. What actually reigns then? Aren't we always desperately seeking help from "marvelous" coffee beans while burning the midnight oils on crippling deadlines?

(To all appearances, such a dependency originates from the very "atrocious" and perplexing world humans themselves have built up).

It is indeed no exaggeration that plants do "rule the world". Let alone the very values they bring about, their "biomass" has far surpassed that of humans and any other living animals on the planet. One study did estimate that plants made up for more than % of the Earth's biomass, bacteria came second with % and then fungi at %; insomuch as humans only modestly account for less than.

Lilliputian as humans might seem, we have actually exerted many a far-reaching impact on other species. Since the dawn of human civilization, we have "cut" the total plant biomass by half, and animals' by.

How could humans step up? To play "frogs" under the wells and go fiercely against your fellow-humans for plants, or desperately long for innovative scientific solutions?

For answers, "stay tuned" for further information in the following articles.
