Appearance is always either overrated or underrated. In general, in most cases, the first thing to be judged is always the appearance.

For example, some of Monster Box posts have inappropriate titles that leave a bad impression on readers even before they start reading the article. While it may be impressive, their feelings are not aligned with the content of the article, leaving the title to create an effect that is contrary to the wishes of both sides is actually unfortunate.

This is similar to the movements for legitimate rights, which cause a bad reaction against people involved because they appear to be inappropriate.

For example, the movement to claim the rights for LGBTQ+ community has been repeatedly criticized as ridiculous, awkward or even vulgar. Images of some protesters dressed in inappropriate clothes, kissing in the middle of a crowded place, holding signs with overboard messages are widely shared on the internet to create cynical and opposed waves from the people.

The democracy protest movement in Hong Kong, anti-racism protest "Black Lives Matter", the th-wave feminism or the movement to protect trees ... also suffered from similar issues.

When looking into these things, we always ask ourselves why the problems relating to format or appearance, which are always obvious are way too common and have yet to be solved when anyone with any common sense would have known what to do? Was it the saboteur or the people fighting for their rights were actually ridiculous?

Confronting that question, it seemed that our wondering was also... superficial, and a bit shallow.

I personally think that what is expressed on the outside, or so-called "appearance", is only the tip of the iceberg.

Let's take a look at stock investors case. Newcomers are often easy to fall into the trap of deluding themselves. With one or a few accurate predictions and earning a certain amount of money, they will systematize their predictions and assume that those green bars come from knowledge, not luck.

For example, during an epidemic, a guy thinks that this is the time when people will work from home, so the personal laptop market will surely sell well, so he buys some of MWG's stock and that's a real deal. He continued to buy other stocks in the same group and the result was still positive. He was happy to share this with his friends, and earned himself several tens of millions along with a strong belief that he could do well in this "game".

Soon, if he did not give up the optimism, he would quickly go bankrupt.

The stock market or even the economy in general do not work like that, or it does work like that, but we are in the majority that are unable to depict it.

The fact is that the stock code of MWG has risen from a few months ago and now continues to rise, simply because it is in the cycle. Why is it in the cycle? Frankly, no one knows. Probably because everything from the market, the internal company to the global ecosystem is going on relatively well.

Besides, the speculation that "due to the epidemic, many people buy laptops, the shares of MWG will increase" is a shallow speculation. He overlooked factors such as transportation, production or sales that were affected by the disease. This can result in higher product costs, lower demand, or even more sales, but lower profit margins than when the disease was not occurring, or even by shareholders of MWG shareholders must withdraw capital to take care of their other businesses (tourism and real estate, for example).

Or the epidemic has caused the majority of people to have a lower income range, reduce spending or study activities to delay the demand for student laptops every year are high this year again. Or even because the disease makes Thegioididong employees unhappy, this may also affect the value of the company. It could be.

Because reality is so complex and unpredictable, investing veteran don't count chickens before they hatch (because it is tiring and does no good at the same time). They choose to invest in a variety of ways, from risky ones which are pretty closed to gambling forms, or more complicated such as "leverage", to "play it big" in speculative groups, but the most common is building a stock portfolio.

This is how beginners usually start. They are often supported by consulting agencies. When building a portfolio, investors will need to shortlist potential picks (usually in the range of stocks) that are observed for months and still see a steady growth. Next, they will use a formula to balance it out so that growth or decline of some stocks are still balanced out by the others. In other words, the cyclical increase and decrease of many stocks are "mixed" together until the point when the profit rate is positive, regardless of whether that one code goes up or down.

With economic knowledge and meticulousness, investors can create quality portfolios and after about months to year, they will get a higher profit than bank savings ( at about % rate). Going this way, you don't need to care about the event or make any inferences, because even events like pandemic happens at all times is gone - this is considered a calculated risk.

But even the portfolio is not a "sure win" one. There is almost no such formula in stock. That's why when you follow the news, you'll see even Wall Street go red and the broker always has to fasten their eyes on the screen instead of getting rich.

It is true that there may exist individuals, like those who have earned money during the crisis, as in The Big Short. But it is uncertain whether their predictions, models, formulas will continue to be true in the future, or just in the case of alone (which is still a bit lucky)? If a model or formula cannot be used in many cases, it quickly becomes useless.

This is also what makes astrology, or outdated theories such as Environmental Determinism, gradually fade and less trustworthy . Because things like the personality or level of success of a particular person / country are just rather sloppy definitions expressed in words, as well as just a poor mapping of what has created it.

Using only factors such as the position of a star in the sky or a geographical location, climate conditions to determine the development of someone or a country is somewhat romantic. And even if it is correct (in fact it often sounds right because people are good at ascribing something to something else), it doesn't make much sense, the aforementioned correctness is mainly because of luck and processed by the poor mindset of humans.

Back to the problem raised in today's discussion, in a complex world, with things that are hard to imagine using the human brain (literally) which are still quietly growing in our society, the integration of those things has created the very poor manifestations we observe today. So, do the things we see and feel are enough to be the fundamental ground to draw conclusions about the problem?

Suppose that the movement against felling trees are just ordinary marches with rallies and banners, whether it can attract public opinion or leave any faintest idea in the memory of the people? Nudity and tree huggers are both repulsive and strange. That's why they are still being mentioned in our tea talks, and it is also the reason for this article.

Have you ever wondered why you don't know the things that are still happening out there?

I give credit to the movements that instilled in the minds of the majority of the people an idea, a very primitive picture of something in the context that our minds today have to pay attention to a lot of other things. Because our lives lasted for several decades, persuading them to follow the movement might have been delayed, but getting everyone's attention was a success.

We often fall into the fast-thinking trap, which always wants things to happen right away, so ultimately we can't do anything. Trying to create a movement that is both interesting, righteous, and resonating, and that movement alone has to change the world is almost impossible (not to mention the definition of "righteous" created mostly to counter the revolutionary movement).

In Vietnam, movements opposing war or banishing bourgeoisie, the empire lasted for decades, with many protests from nonviolent to violent ones. There are people taking part in demonstrations writing poems to motivate others. There are also those who plunder to resonate. All those generations to fall down, all that effort, we finally achieved our goal.

So, going back to the tree-hugging movement, the "black lives matter" protest, the gay movement or the democracy-protest movement in Hong Kong, they were just a very early development of a wave that happened in the past and continues in the future and maybe until the day we get old reading books by the window that we will be may be able to hear the news that these struggles have come to an end.

Now, their mission is to resonate and somehow leave an impression in the public mind about their presence - that is called success. Even the endless arguments that appear on social networks are also considered successful.

So, from my personal point of view, issues of sensitve form such as riots, nudity, ridiculousness, etc. of movements need to be condemned, but from a historical perspective, they appear as a crucial factor. And these format/appearance issues do not change the nature of the problem, that trees really need to be protected, that black and the LGBTQ + community should be treated equally.

Because riots, or tree huggers or nudity don't change the nature of the problem behind these movements, it is only used as a way to propagate and influence. These movements can go from this form to another form, and another form, but the nature behind it remains unchanged.

Perhaps we are truly dominated by them and the world began to change from yesterday but we still haven't realized. Perhaps the moment we joined in protest against these movements on social networks, we were sure of the defeat.

The world is complicated.
