TL;DR: The article hereby draws out a conclusion that 'multitasking' is purely an illusion roughed out by the most wide-eyed minds on their so-called 'marvelous' ability to simultaneously perform more-than-one-task.

The human brain does never function as a CPU.

Emerging by the mid, "multitask" was originally a term referring to the IBM System/'s multitasking processing capability - which had been invented around this time. This stood out and self-evidenced as a remarkable, all-purpose feature, which has since saved humans a handsome amount of should-have-long-been-spent-on-other-tasks time.

After all, humans must have been desperately longing for such a staggering ability that they have later imposed this term on themselves - as other computing central units - given that they themselves have never functioned as such.

Nevertheless, I still know all too well that you still are vaguely purporting that "our brain indeed functions as a complex computer", and "I do multitask all the time, which has so far been soooooooooo efficacious". Forasmuch as what you bear in mind itself is beside the point of either whether it is justifiable or not, or whether it actually subsists or not.

To put into perspective, tasks which are so straightforward and familiar that have evolved and integrated into unconsciousness are not "multitasking". To demonstrate, we can, at the same time, brush our teeth, drive a car and prepare for a simple breakfast. In fact, neither of which would require conscious brain control, instead done in a less purposeful way, after all, to make our lives less wretched. It would, otherwise, get so arduous, were even brushing teeth or wearing shoes to distress our low-key minds. Once mastered, even the most recently emerging behaviors, take driving as an example, would be conducted similarly as if we were walking.

On other arduous activities demanding deep concentration, as well as intellectual power; we, de facto, rarely coevally address more than one at a time, instead, solely switching back and forth between which. After all, "task-switching" would better describe that so-called 'multitasking' behavior.

On the whole, our brain has never been 'tailor-made' for simultaneous processes and coordination of two or more tasks; inasmuch as the very neurological structures and cognitive systems to devise the behavioral- and attention-governing-mechanisms of ours do forevermore tilt towards single-task-concentration, let alone the dismal fact that concentration, at the very core, is a limited resource.

Whilst processing a task, the perplexing network of brain systems (including the frontoparietal, dorsal attention and ventral attention networks) coordinate to track down the must-attain goals, picking up critical pieces of information while ignoring irrelevant ones; thereby allocating this limited extent to every step.

Upon multitasking, such an allocating process, as well as the three coordination networks are distorted, since they are to simultaneously receive and process multifarious information flows. Worse still, the ventral attention network would get easily overloaded upon doing over and over again the very task of refining (and removing redundant) information.

To put into perspective, whilst accomplishing task A - the network loads up a set of crucial information samples (a, a, a). As another activity pops up, say b, b and b, the system has to reload this new profile, thus discarding the former (a, a, a), which appears no longer pivotal, casting stones in what was left half-done in A. As the very process of loading - discarding information - redirecting concentration becomes unceasing, overall performance, as a rule, would get as much stagnant, and every 'multitasked' task would take more time than single ones .

Have you ever attentively self-evaluated your performances? After all, is the feeling of getting tied up all what you hurt for?

We are hereby doing a small experiment. Try calculating the time it actually takes to count from to , and afterwards read the A-Z alphabet, then comparing to counting numbers and the corresponding letters (-A, -B, ..., Z-). In a like manner, upon conducting the experiment on students, Yanna Weinstein, a psychology doctor, noticed a significant difference in results. Counting from to took only seconds, insomuch as reading out loud the alphabet costed the students seconds; the combination of which did, however, mounted up to seconds.

These figures have been perfectly consistent with the results yielded from other studies . They, as a rule, evidenced that "multitasking" indeed bred a woeful downgrading of up to in individual performances . On the hand, it stretched the time needed to address the problems, on the other hand, exacerbated the accuracy of each task . Let alone negative emotional responses , such minor multitasks as replying emails or comprehending data during lunch would make the dish somehow ill-favoured .

As a "myth" all-too-overblown by the media, multitasking itself has bred yet another "myth" that men are all-too-inferior to women in multitasking; with the very illustration of the all-rounded housewives simultaneously looking after their children, cooking, and cleaning the house. Nonetheless, "myth" is still "myth", given the very fact that neither of which could ever truly 'multitask' .

Since the dawn of the Internet, digital media and handheld electronics, people are seemingly worse gravitated towards such a commitment. As a rule, we are checking mail boxes on the overloaded-with-tabs browser bars, on which we are unceasingly switching between Messenger messages on one tab, checking mailboxes on another tab, and either surfing instagram for dramas or watching some music videos on other tabs. After all, another trendy, appropriate and smart term would best describe the situation: "media multitasking", or multitasking on multiple media platforms . Given the pretty much identical nature, the latter, however, is breeding more crippling burdens.

By, British researchers asserted that the so-called info-mania from constant calls, emails and text messages could downgrade employees' IQ levels, spearheading consequences even more ruinous than that of marijuana . Subsequent studies also spelt out many other pernicious impacts media multitasking might have exerted on such neurological functions as memory impairment , distraction , reduced density of gray matter in prefrontal cortex ; and eventually symptoms of depression and social anxiety.

To a similar extent, there have even been negative effects on one's academic performances; especially when smartphones , laptops and "media multitasking" themselves are making their way into the lecture halls. On the whole, the very use of laptops in classes did not only distract students from lectures, but also impact their colleagues. As we are in-between the epoch of technology and significant changes to teaching and learning; especially to the early ages' , we, after all, are hurting for every attentiveness while getting students exposed to electronic devices.

Why do we tilt towards multitasking (which seems, to all appearances, fruitless)?

Seneca, Stoic Roman philosopher, once said: "To be everywhere is to be nowhere" . On a universal level of awareness, we know all too well that getting our attention driven away by external factors would hardly get us to any further. The US economy splurges a total of billion a year on the very distraction of "going all-out to multitask", let alone many other detrimental consequences, as little by little spelt out by researchers.

Worse still, the question is, why are we still stubbornly pursuing such a 'castle in the air'? Why would we never open one browser tab at one time? (I do).

As it turns out, albeit not bettering one's performances, "multitasking" does indeed get people let go of some tasks, tied up to other new tasks, and earn themselves some emotional satisfaction . In a like manner, given that watching TV whilst studying might appear somewhat futile, it, however, makes learning less distressing, at least.

This emotional satisfaction (given that we do rarely need one) is among the very factors distorting our perceptions on multitasking; since we are getting all-too-confused of working efficiency and positive personal emotions. Once done over again, it gradually turns into a stimulant to urge us to turn to multitasking, forming itself into somewhat of a self-reinforcing habit .

Having dug deeper into the cognitive aspects, researchers were somewhat taken aback upon discovering that multitasking indeed bettered one's performances in certain situations. To demonstrate, smaller pieces from a single task, upon being assigned to the participants as 'multitasks', they did perform rather exceptionally. Nonetheless, the study did hardly negate the ruinous effects of multitasking as in many other previous studies.

On the other hand, other than the afore-argued detrimental effects and research approaches (on, for example, dual-tasking, in which one study proposed that the frontal lobe of the two brain hemispheres could simultaneously handle two different tasks, had there been additional rewards for accomplishing the two goals ), the bright side of multitasking have emerged as fiercely.

To put into perspective, those habitually multitask on multiple media platforms themselves have developed the skills of synthesizing multi-sensory information , or doodling to win back some interest whilst slogging through some tedious lectures. Also, we did argue in the week of audio that music could actually polish one's performance whilst practicing sports , programming  or studying documents .

'Worse still', I was also taken aback by the very existence of "supertaskers", those truly capable of simultaneously performing two intense tasks without ever getting hard-stuck . Nevertheless, our advice still is to focus on every single task and aim at the best results, for the high chance is that you are not among that % who possess this awe-inspiring ability.

In a letter to his son in the s, Earl Chesterfield did advise: "There is time enough for everything in the course of the day, if you do but one thing at once, but there is not enough time in the year, if you will do two things at a time. This steady and undissipated attention to one object, is a sure mark of a superior genius; as hurry, bustle, and agitation, are the never-failing symptoms of a weak and frivolous mind" .

Every mind always craves the very feeling of getting tied-up and making some progress, heedless of the fact that they are merely treading water.
