Nikola Tesla: Wizard of the Industrial Revolution

Nikola Tesla grips his hat in his hand. He points his cane toward Niagara Falls and beckons bystanders to turn their gaze to the future. This bronze Tesla - a statue on the Canadian side - stands atop an induction motor, the type of engine that drove the first hydroelectric power plant.

We owe much of our modern electrified life to the lab experiments of the Serbian-American engineer, born in in what's now Croatia. His designs advanced alternating current at the start of the electric age and allowed utilities to send current over vast distances, powering American homes across the country. He developed the Tesla coil - a high-voltage transformer - and techniques to transmit power wirelessly. Cellphone makers (and others) are just now utilizing the potential of this idea.

Tesla is perhaps best known for his eccentric genius. He once proposed a system of towers that he believed could pull energy from the environment and transmit signals and electricity around the world, wirelessly. But his theories were unsound, and the project was never completed. He also claimed he had invented a "death ray."

In recent years, Tesla's mystique has begun to eclipse his inventions. San Diego Comic-Con attendees dress in Tesla costumes. The world's most famous electric car bears his name. The American Physical Society even has a Tesla comic book (where, as in real life, he faces off against the dastardly Thomas Edison).

While his work was truly genius, much of his wizardly reputation was of his own making. Tesla claimed to have accidentally caused an earthquake in New York City using a small steam-powered electric generator he'd invented - MythBustersdebunked that idea. And Tesla didn't actually discover alternating current, as everyone thinks. It was around for decades. But his ceaseless theories, inventions and patents made Tesla a household name, rare for scientists a century ago. And even today, his legacy still turns the lights on. - Eric Betz

