Carl Linnaeus: Say His Name(s)

It started in Sweden: a functional, user-friendly innovation that took over the world, bringing order to chaos. No, not an Ikea closet organizer. We're talking about the binomial nomenclature system, which has given us clarity and a common language, devised by Carl Linnaeus.

Linnaeus, born in southern Sweden in , was an "intensely practical" man, according to Sandra Knapp, a botanist and taxonomist at the Natural History Museum in London. He lived at a time when formal scientific training was scant and there was no system for referring to living things. Plants and animals had common names, which varied from one location and language to the next, and scientific "phrase names," cumbersome Latin descriptions that could run several paragraphs.

The th century was also a time when European explorers were fanning out across the globe, finding ever more plants and animals new to science.

"There got to be more and more things that needed to be described, and the names were becoming more and more complex," says Knapp.

Linnaeus, a botanist with a talent for noticing details, first used what he called "trivial names" in the margins of his book Species Plantarum. He intended the simple Latin two-word construction for each plant as a kind of shorthand, an easy way to remember what it was.

"It reflected the adjective-noun structure in languages all over the world," Knapp says of the trivial names, which today we know as genus and species. The names moved quickly from the margins of a single book to the center of botany, and then all of biology. Linnaeus started a revolution, but it was an unintentional one.

Today we regard Linnaeus as the father of taxonomy, which is used to sort the entire living world into evolutionary hierarchies, or family trees. But the systematic Swede was mostly interested in naming things rather than ordering them, an emphasis that arrived the next century with Charles Darwin.

As evolution became better understood and, more recently, genetic analysis changed how we classify and organize living things, many of Linnaeus' other ideas have been supplanted. But his naming system, so simple and adaptable, remains.

"It doesn't matter to the tree in the forest if it has a name," Knapp says. "But by giving it a name, we can discuss it. Linnaeus gave us a system so we could talk about the natural world." - Gemma Tarlach


