Monster Box did a week of stimulants, which turned out indeed "stimulating". Still, what pin me down whilst doing research on these substances was that the stimulants/drugs we had all too often turned to had, for the most part, sprung up from plants.

They range from as mild as caffeine, marijuana LSD or DMT (either fungi-, flower- or cactus-extracted), to as heavy as opium and cocaine (poppy- and coca-extracted), inasmuch as the very primitive substances have even fired up the dawn of modern synthetic drugs.

After all, since when have humans caught some senses of what plants to get them ecstatic, psyched-up or hysterical?

And ultimately, are we gambling something on such miraculous "medicines"?

Coffee and tea

The very first knowledge of coffee and the drinking culture did spring up quite recently - around the th century . Some historical records noted that the very fortuitous discovery of coffee originated from the observations that the birds, upon devouring coffee beans, became invigorated. Afterwards, humans did imitate and enjoy pretty much the similar effect .

We, for the most fart, are hardly cognizant of the very facts behind the drink, to demonstrate, drinking coffee does grant your sperm some caffeine, which might, in turn, worsen the severity of stress . By the book, caffeine functions as it interacts with adenosine - a substance secreted to alert the body of "break hours", which is, to all appearances, eminently practical in a modern world. Its own mechanism has acted as a precursor to its dawn as one of the most consumed goods on record.

Nonetheless, caffeine still is purely to "stave off drowsiness", instead of "shape humans perfectly healthy without it". After all, abuse might as much spearhead the very unwanted side-effects derived from mentally coercing the body to stay awake for too long and, given the "habitual" alerts, deprive itself of "refreshment".

Such maltreatments, in turn, might cause the body to counteract: to fall into restlessness, anxiety, heart palpitations, fatigue, and sleep disturbance. Caffeine abuse is also prone to dependency, making your body useless when there is no caffeine. We, thus, run into a "atrocious" vicious circle of "consuming coffee", "staying awake to fight deadlines", "sleep disorder", "sleep deprivation", "falling for drowsiness", "consuming coffee", and here we go again.

That said, one cup a day seems, in all likelihood, as much compelling. The very use of it has been evidenced to better mood, leverage concentration and alertness . After all, a cup of coffee must be eminently efficacious "for" performance, instead of "against" sleepiness.

Caffeine has also been vindicated by numerous studies, which claim that it was relevant to neither cardiovascular nor cancerous diseases (the two most common diseases) . It has even better the alzheimer treatments and the drinkers' memory .

If you don't like coffee, but still feel alert, try tea. The development history of this beverage is more complicated and much older than coffee. They appear in many ancient civilizations, but the earliest evidence is recorded around the third century AD, in China .

There is a funny story that tea has created a "tea awakening" effect worldwide. That is, since tea became popular and consumed, the state of lightheadedness, confusion and alertness that tea creates has become a "normal" state that people use to perceive the world. This funny story shows the great and wide influence of tea throughout history.

Tea has caffeine and another amino acid, theanine. This compound has the same structure and effects as glutamate - a neurotransmitter present in the body. Theanine helps the body become alert and increase attention, limiting the side effects of caffeine. Many studies have also shown that consuming theanine improves sleep, reduces stress, is good for people with depression and adds calm.

Theanine side effects have so far only been reported to cause drowsiness and headaches.

Such maltreatments, in turn, might cause the body to counteract: to fall into restlessness, anxiety, heart palpitations, fatigue, and sleep disturbance. Caffeine abuse is also prone to dependency, making your body useless when there is no caffeine. We, thus, run into a "atrocious" vicious circle of "consuming coffee", "staying awake to fight deadlines", "sleep disorder", "sleep deprivation", "falling for drowsiness", "consuming coffee", and here we go again.

That said, one cup a day seems, in all likelihood, as much compelling. The very use of it has been evidenced to better mood, leverage concentration and alertness . After all, a cup of coffee must be eminently efficacious "for" performance, instead of "against" sleepiness.

Caffeine has also been vindicated by numerous studies, which claim that it was relevant to neither cardiovascular nor cancerous diseases (the two most common diseases). It has even better the alzheimer treatments and the drinkers' memory.

If you don't like coffee, but still feel alert, try tea. The development history of this beverage is more complicated and much older than coffee. They appear in many ancient civilizations, but the earliest evidence is recorded around the third century AD, in China .

There is a funny story that tea has created a "tea awakening" effect worldwide. That is, since tea became popular and consumed, the state of lightheadedness, confusion and alertness that tea creates has become a "normal" state that people use to perceive the world. This funny story shows the great and wide influence of tea throughout history.

Tea has caffeine and another amino acid, theanine. This compound has the same structure and effects as glutamate - a neurotransmitter present in the body. Theanine helps the body become alert and increase attention, limiting the side effects of caffeine. Many studies have also shown that consuming theanine improves sleep, reduces stress, is good for people with depression and adds calm.

Theanine side effects have so far only been reported to cause drowsiness and headaches.

Marijuana and Psychedelics.

Cannabis was one of the earliest human-consumed plants in the world, thousands of years BC, in many different civilizations (mainly in Asia). This plant was then used to make herbs, sedatives and used to get textile fibers, knit (hemp).

According to some documents, the American society had biases about the drug as Mexican immigrants took it with them (this is also the origin of the word Marijuana - M-word), which became the centre of boycotts later. But legal tensions over marijuana were intensified by the "drug war" launched by President Nixon - a somehow racist-colored act driven by the Vietnam War. .

Recently, the pop culture has focused on marijuana and shikigami, especially on Netflix, and I don't know what the purpose of this movement is.

"The first time I tried marijuana, I felt as if the surroundings had been as enormous as the universe and I had been a part of a great intellectual entity "- the story of a character in the Netflix documentary "The Legends of ".

But despite being in a marijuana-supporting documentary, the description is not an exaggeration. Marijuana can cause a user to change perception: see time goes slower, objects move more slowly, are more sensitive to sound and light ... This cognitive change makes users feel Their senses become more sensitive or focused, but in reality it is a change in the way they receive and process information.

It is the THC compound in marijuana combined with neurotransmitter receptors that causes these changes. This mixture also causes the brain to release dopamine (aka the happy chemical), similar to what we feel when eating or having sex - still, not as intense as cocaine or meth.

In addition to THC, marijuana also contains CBD. Both have similar molecular structures which resemble a body compound called endocannabinoids. This is why CBD and THC can be bound to other nerve receptors. However, unlike THC, CBD does not cause "high" symptoms. CBD is a compound used mainly in medicine, which reduce stress, relieve pain or support the treatment of mental illnesses such as depression, anxiety, etc. CBD is proven (until this point) to be tolerable, and no serious side effect has taken place even when taking a large dose .

On the other hand, THC, besides arousing a "high" feeling, also has side effects such as: red eyes, dry mouth/eyes, slow reaction, loss of short-term memory, etc. .

In health, CBD and THC are known as pain relief compounds for cancer patients during chemotherapy, muscle pain, stress relief, support for anxiety and depression, and appetite stimulation. ... but that doesn't mean marijuana has the same benefits. The medical effects are only true when these substances are used independently and in specific doses.

However, new cannabis varieties often have high levels of THC, which is harmful to the health of users. Several studies have shown that after using marijuana, users may feel anxiety, depression, and distraction . Other studies have shown that long-term cannabis users often have poor management ability, forming bad habits ... However, these studies have received a lot of criticism and opposition because it is unclear that such subjects use marijuana or marijuana causes such research subjects to become and The study subjects were not isolated from other stimulants such as alcohol and tobacco .

Many scientists believe that marijuana's mechanism of action (affecting neurotransmitters) can alter the brain's developmental structure. There have been many mouse studies on this conclusion. Therefore, the effects of marijuana are also different for different age groups. Specifically, marijuana poses a greater risk to adolescents who are developing brain structures, but is very good for the elderly (especially in the treatment of Alzheimer's) .

Besides marijuana, LSD and others that are part of the Psychedelics category have recently appeared on Netflix. These shikigami are extracted from a number of mushrooms, flowers and cacti. Until now, they are still allowed to be used in religious rituals and beliefs of minorities - the same way that humans have discovered them.

There are also many articles sharing experiences using these Psychedelics online. The author of shared articles often recounts that they find themselves in harmony with everything. When listening to classical music, they mingle with the notes and seem to be in the violin. Or there is a view that "if meditation is a way to fall into a state of peaceful mind, then Psychedelics is a shortcut to it."

By the way, these hallucinogens create a cognitive change, making the way we perceive the world differently: perceiving images differently, losing the ability to perceive space and time, Think differently, feel the sound of light differently ... So far, because it's forbidden research on these substances is quite limited. However, some studies show that they have a positive effect in smoking cessation, alcoholism, treatment of anxiety and depression .

If things go wrong, the user will experience a "bad trip" including bad experiences, fears amplified and images / sounds become much more dreadful..

So far, the experience of using LSD has been quite limited, mainly following the tribal rituals of creating suitable spaces, appropriate guides as well as body, mood before spreading out. Experiments must be carefully prepared. However, LSD has been shown to trigger schizophrenia in at-risk individuals, as well as create hallucinations that last for months .

The ban on marijuana and LSD is still controversial to this day. LSD has also been banned since Nixon wanted to eliminate Hippie groups who opposed the Vietnam War. The ban has led to a large number of people being imprisoned, though so far studies show that marijuana and LSD are not physically addictive, as well as more moderate than alcohol, beer or cigarettes .

But it was the ban on marijuana and LSD that also created a lack of research, a proper understanding of them, as well as making marijuana and LSD floating out of the black market dangerous because of no concentration control. and purity.

Therefore, we reserve the opinion not to try even once. Because of what we know about these substances in the studies or in this article, it may be very different from what is floating in the market with the same name.

Cocaine and opium.

These are physical addictive substances, creating dependencies as well as having a powerful effect - both positive and negative - on the brain.

Cocaine is the second most commonly used drug after marijuana but contrary to marijuana there are very few related deaths (less than), cocaine has so far been associated with thousands of deaths. each year due to direct use .

Cocaine affects the body quite strongly, creating excitement, joy, losing contact with the real world and extreme happiness. Therefore, they also create serious effects on the body such as an increased risk of stroke, myocardial infarction, lung problems, blood infections. Cocaine sold on the street is often mixed with anesthetic, cornstarch, quinine or sugar, which can lead to additional toxicity. After repeated doses, a person is more likely to become addicted, dependent, have reduced pleasure and be very physically tired .

Cocaine in coca leaves, used to drink tea, chewed for thousands of years in South American countries . So far, coca leaves are being legalized in the form of tea with doses and "substance" other than cocaine in the form of drug powder. Cocaine is also used in limited medical practice. Of course, these medical and commercial applications are very different from the extracted cocaine rampant in the black market.

Opium is related to Heroin and Morphine, all three being together. Until now, the compounds in poppy (poppy) are still widely used in medicine to use as painkillers, medicines for treatment. From a commercial perspective, preparations of seeds and essential oils are used as spices and baking materials (especially in Central Europe and South Asia).

Using Heroin, opium and morphine will bring a special feeling of delirium, excitement, but in return, the body will suffer serious effects of multiple organs, especially the nervous system. These substances are also very addictive and extremely easy to lead to abuse. This is why even when used in medicine, patients are still at risk of addiction.

As a rule, either stimulants or addictive drugs had forevermore been leveraged throughout the human historical flow. Which, after all, seems any less of a nonsense, given the higher fatality rate, modest average life expectancy, and the very superficial prehistoric knowledge compared to their evolved descendants.

Therefore, from the perspective of policymakers and economists, the ban on the above substances is understandable, at least to ensure economic, political and social order stability.

Nevertheless, the ban on drugs itself has bred as much drastic social faults. Substances like marijuana and opium have made their trade more profitable (because buyers pay big opportunity costs for the risk of being captured by sellers and growers, transporters) and collect engage dangerous individuals in society to participate.

Besides, the ban on drugs also makes drugs increasingly diverse, dangerous and unpredictable. The emergence of synthetic drugs is an example. Because trading in a sack of marijuana or opium might not be as profitable as a small packet of synthetic white powder. Therefore, the concentration and form of drugs are increasingly improved, developed in such a way as to be as profitable as possible.

Nor are bans somewhat of prominent moves.

For it must have been a perplexing issue inherently entangled in other perplexing things, such a lowkey article as this could hardly propose any feasible solution.

*This is purely an article to offer a very superficial insight into drugs and banned substances. As Monster Box, we would never encourage any related against-the-state-law actions.


