I was assigned to finish off this very article on deadlines within  days, which seemed any less comfortable. The plan was as follows: the first day was to research relevant studies, and the others would be to put ideas into action. It, after all, appeared as if it had been a pertnear plan, ... until I got bogged down in multi-tabs and many a bookmark, not knowing what to jot down. The clock kept ticking. "Write something!", I cried out in despair, "whatsoever" - even this ponderous prologue.

We must, after all, have all too often slogged through such a feeling: regardless of the delivery deadlines (either days, or even a week); every task would only get done under the wire. Worse still, given our painstakingly-meticulous plans [for every step], we still are missing the deadlines. But why?

The more time, the less responsibility.

After a long time immersing in public administrations, Cyril Northcote Parkinson, a British historian and book author, concluded that as an administration expanded, it would become awfully slipshod. Given the stable bureaucratic personnel upsurge by annually, "the amount of work needed done remained the same" .

From his practical observations and personal experience, Parkinson published the so-called Parkinson's law, which drew out the very asymmetry between job performance and input resources (personnel, time, and fundings), on a The Economist satirical article by , coming up the notorious statement: "work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion " .

Given that such a law has more to do with personnel management; especially on the structure and scope of state administrative agencies ; the very correlation between time and job performance deduced from which also brought forward a matter of concern. Research indeed evidenced that every task assigned with comfortable deadlines would stretch out which, compared to more stringent time frames .

Worse still, they even asserted that once having expanded, preoccupying the deadlines, every task would even hurt for more time to get done . A later experiment , in which subjects were asked to skim through four sets of images given a restricted time frame. Strikingly enough, once getting informed of skipping the fourth, they, however, splurged more time fiddling with the third instead of getting it done forthwith. In another experiment that got the participants to count characters in several phrases, the findings was that assigning those with more time did hardly shape up the accuracy of the memorizing task, nor was it of any help in solving a sudden test afterwards.

In other words, even when we own neither apathy nor procrastination "genomes", we still are woefully vulnerable to stagnation and procrastination. To further explain his lifetime law, Parkinson did come up shortly thereafter with the very concept of Law of Triviality , spelling out the very tendency to splurge more time and efforts on trivial matters over the assigned tasks.

He pointed to a practical demonstration of which: he himself witnessed that within a conference zeroing in the construction of a nuclear plant, delegates indeed squandered an absurd amount of time homing in such irrelevant issues as bike warehouses' supplies, whilst turning a blind eye to plant designs (the so-called bike-shed effect).

Slogging through mountains of documents (even if we are to refer to a small proportion of which) might appear "backbreaking" [to your employees], or even "phenomenally well-prepared". Nevertheless, either scrutinizing fonts, adjusting colors, or decorating tables would still end up fruitless, were you to have no idea about the upcoming report.

Once driven away from the main tasks [by other trivial tasks], getting them done would unimpeachably appear insurmountably arduous. That you yourselves run into these trivial pitfalls would as well place us under unrelenting pressure of complying with the deadlines. As they creep upon us, they appear as storms buffeting our mind. They downgrade both our attention or concentration capacities (limited inherent human resources, as afore-argued in previous articles), and worse still, they even blow over every piece of creativity in ours . Racing against time itself is an arduous and intimidating task; yet dismally enough, such an uptight state has never been a way to polish our brain.

Our productivity graph is not a linear line, which goes inversely proportionally to the given time frame . We might "luckily finish it off in the nick of time" - which is to physically do away with which. As for other impacts on our mind, well, that must have been another sheer luck.

Planning, after all, is emerging as the most critical factor behind this modern world. But...

Drawing up plans might still go wrong.

Procrastination, albeit ill-favored to every individual, has turned out somewhat ubiquitous. Once projected onto a social context, the "failing deadlines" must appear kindred to expired projects. In fact, even in developed countries, we must have all too heard of bogged-down projects.

Expected to make its very debut by , not until  did The Sydney Opera House's compact version come to place, costing an exorbitant budget of million, compared to the former estimation of million . The US' largest artery traffic infrastructure project, "Big Dig" , did also expand the deadline to a decade afterwards, thus hurting for billions dollars more in funding. Most recently, Berlin's Brandenburg airport is anticipated to operate by this October - as announced in the second schedule. The deadline for which was formerly . The exorbitant amount of delayed time, as a rule, goes hand in hand with an upsurge of billion euros in capital. Statistics, after all, have revealed many other major projects that have lagged so far behind schedule or costing an onerous amount of unexpected expenses .

Planning fallacy is a prevailing phenomenon, wherein we run ourselves into faulty estimates of the time [it takes to finish off a task], even after having experienced similar situations. Upon getting put forward by Daniel Kahneman, an economist and psychologist, and Amos Tversky in , such a concept has evolved to spell out the very tendency to belittle not only time, but also costs and potential risks mounting from certain actions; whilst inflating those .

In a high attempt to reason out this repetitive error, a study turned to three major reasons: the difference between subjective and objective viewpoints, the very barriers upon applying past experience, and cognitive optimism.

Planning, even when we have sneaked upon groups, is way more subjective than our anticipation. For the most, it is contingent upon subjective cognitive processes of future visualizations, and the very linear way of dealing with information, thus hurting for condemning projects into one single whole with critical solutions to which. By staying heedful of the assigned tasks, we correspondingly set out what to finish off; whilst skipping the decentralized approach, which is to scrutinize tasks in correlations which others to, after all, get the overall picture. Given our confirmation bias, even when we get distracted by others' comments; our very confidence of "things flowing in alignment with plans" would hardly plummet.

On the other hand, planning itself is intrinsically tilted towards the future instead of the past, inasmuch as such an orientation would build up an insurmountable wall in-between our current plans and our experience. Even when we run into mistakes and failures, we still gravitate towards denying the critical significance of which; purporting that only incoming events would grant us some opportunities to polish us up.

Given our optimism, we have all too often got ourselves exposed to the best case scenarios and conditions, whilst failing to anticipate pitfalls, especially when we head solely towards the final goals, thus turning a deaf ear to other irrelevant factors.

Serving as not only a distorted illusion in planning, optimism bias is indeed a raging cognitive trap that dogs our everyday lives - take, for example, missing deadlines.

"Failure is the mother of success", "failure doesn't mean that you don't have abilities, but simply that you haven't had success" - positive and optimistic thinkings, after all, are crucial.

Nevertheless, instead of putting forward such sayings in defense of your throwing the towel, bear those in mind upon the most awful failures, take the very responsibility and continue carrying the torch


