Earth, April th, .

It was am when Seung-Hui Cho embarked on his very plan. He first walked into a dorm room, taking out a new Glock and P semi-automatic pistol to 'zap' victims.

Given that the police and medical personnels were hastily surrounding the crime scene, Cho serenely walked back to his room, changing his very blood-soaked clothes to, after all, walk to a nearby station with af suitcase.

The very 'parcel' to NBC included a long-winded -word suicidal declaration, several photos and other horrid footage.

By minutes, Cho returned to his school, entering the Faculty of Mechanical Science and Engineering, he locking the door and 'showering' in his 'handmade bloodbath'.

Wherein were killed and others were injured. After all, Cho committed suicide with his own Glock.

The Virginia Polytechnic shooting is considered among the bloodiest school genocides American ever witnessed . The ferocious behaviors did not only outrage and leave unceasing wounds on the victims' families, but also fiercely stir up controversies on the state's capabilities of managing students, categorizing their psychological healths and satisfying the very mental treatment needs.

Ultimately, citizens were also putting forward a conundrum on whether Seung-hui Cho was woefully addicted to Counter Strike; in other words, did his virtual shooting addiction somehow act as a precursor to his massacre behaviors in real life?

Do games indeed catalyze violences?

Even when the conundrum was later answered by Cho's classmates, who insisted that he had previously been not really engaged in video games, many had inherently purported that violent games must have bred violent behaviors. Their superficial arguments were as follows:

First, video games acted as a 'priming' to juvenile violences.

From a psychological perspective, priming is indeed an unconscious memorial phenomenon, in which exposure to one stimulus influences a response to a subsequent stimulus . To demonstrate, should I give you the key word "adorable" and ask you to point to a pet, the images of either "cat" or "dog" would, in all likelihood, pop up in your mind. In a like manner, many a person did purport that virtual violent scenes players (especially children) experienced in-game must have urged them to associate those with real-life contexts, thus, getting more violent in behaviors.

Nevertheless, David Zendle's study debunked this very argument. Accordingly, he and his colleagues told the participants to join either of two games: whilst the former got players to drive, dodging obstacles, the latter had them play mouses and try not-to-be-caught by cats. Upon having finished the games, David had them look at pictures of buses and animals, asking them to distinguish between means of transportation and animals.

After all, those participating in the driving game could hardly spell out which vehicles had been moving faster than human walking speed, so could those in the latter game. In other simplified words, the study asserted that no game scene could have acted as a 'priming' in distorting our brains. (Find out more from David's research attached in the comment section below)

In another 'as high' attempt, many a bigot argued that the 'realer' violent video games got, the more vicious players would become.

David carried out another study, wherein participants were asked to play first-person shooting games embedded in ragdoll technology (which simulates physical human movements as if they were made in reality). Hit-and-run, gore and death scenes in the game, thus, were any less real as in real life. Upon having finished the game, participants were given a test, in which the violent doomed-to-be-ticked responses were stashed.

Nonetheless, the test, after all, could hardly establish any connection between the game's reality technologies and players' violent tendency .

Many other studies did also arrive at similar conclusions. Simone Kuhn and his colleagues conducted a four-month experiment, in which participants were divided into three groups. Whilst the first was to play as vicious a game as Grand Theft Auto V, the second was asked to play such a not-that-violent game as The Sims , and the last group was to ward off any video games during that entire period. In the end, the research could spell out no difference in violent tendency patterns between the violent gamers, non-violent gamers and non-gaming participants.

The American Psychological Association (APA)'s most recent conclusion (this March), drawn from studies since , even stated that we, indeed, had hardly established any direct connection between violent video games and real-life violence? There was only a trivial one between games and aggressive behaviors (screaming and shoving others, which are ubiquitous within cybers). They, on the other hand, suggested that we should have invested more in history of violence analysis, for recent achievements of the industry catalyzed better anticipations of potential violent behaviors .

The last argument is that the recent escalation in US shooting rate must have correlated the dawn of video games.

In fact, during the industry's heyday (between and ), it did sell, on average, million units and introduce new games per year. Nonetheless, recent years have witnessed the number of sold units and new games per year withering . The highest US murder rate dated back to as decrepit as the and - the very period of Super Mario reigning the arcade game market. After all, did the 'violent' Mario himself act as a precursor to that many murders?

The complexity of behavior motives and the reason why game-blasphemy is somewhat old-as-the-hills

Studies formerly ardently supporting the very assumption that games breed violent behaviors thrived on correlational-research methods, in a high attempt to evidence that violent games drove players aggressive for some times after playing. They, however, hastily leaped to a conclusion that violent games 'indeed' facilitated vicious behaviors.

In fact, given the very correlations between two variables, we have many a time failed to prove their causational relationship. Even the studies presuming the game-violence-behavior-patterns are also holding on the scant evidence to 'evidence' that purported relationship. In other simplified words, even when game indeed catalyzes aggression, it might not have been the main cause of any vicious behaviors (ultimately murders) . For there are so many other factors behind such behaviors, to illustrate, the family educational environment, social contexts, the affordability of mental health services and the inherent psychological problems of the unscrupulous. Within the constraints of their studies, they had bitterly failed to fully evaluate any of those aspects on the sample population.

To put into perspective, given that Seung-Hui Cho had developed a cold, antisocial personality during his very teenage years, even falling for selective mutism syndrome, his schools and family were still heedless of Cho.

As aforementioned in the previous Super Mario example, either the psychology or the very laws, on which this world is thriving, has hardly been that straightforward. At the same time, similar trends are not always in causational relationships. On the contrary, we have all too often turned a blind eye to such seemingly illogical relationships as cable television cutting the crude birth rate .

As afore-argued in the "game-violence" controversy, are we indeed simplifying an inherently entangled concept of "violence" and passing the buck for game - another violently thriving concept?

Bizarrely enough, humans had become vicious long before the dawn of video games. The first games emerged around the very end of World War II, or an auspicious new era of global peace.

Back then in the 'good' old days, we turned to malevolence, upon driven by either greeds, egos, impudences or many other 'noble' purposes, to demonstrate, to protect our families and prove our patriotism. Nowadays, we would rather ride roughshod over others upon catching a glimpse of disdain.

Many others purport that violence is deep-rooted in human nature, breaking out as the very stimulus go beyond our tipping points. Still, as this goes violently against the very moral values of the human civilization, we are always hurting for a scapegoat to duck their evil deeds on.

We are blaming games in pretty much the same way as Asian parents accusing either comic books, TVs, computers, or phones for their children's illnesses. Games, formerly comics, Hong Kong movies, and KPop, are now what getting the young to 'die on vine'. Nevertheless, bizarrely enough, the world is day-on-day bettered, however violently the previous generation had gnawed at their descendants.

That said, we know all too well that everything is only bearable, to a certain extent. Those enjoying games must be chalks and cheeses with those driven crazy by them, inasmuch as it seems undeniable that video games have every so often worsened one's already-decayed-personality (in accordance with social norms and expectations).

Whilst on the subject, excessive gaming might inflict physical and mental damages, and even bedwetting behaviors .

After all, as humans are getting deeper into games, we would sooner or later realize that they are not what hurting for extensive investigation.

Rather, unearth our own reality.


