Discrimination is convoluted at its very core. Every so often, it has emerged so hazily that we could hardly spell it out. Were it to take forms of purely superficial manifestations - either verbally, or behaviorally insulting the "others", our civilization would not have been stormed that violently.

The discrimination is often as subtle as the very ways we raise our eyebrows at someone, we hold back decisions involving others and how arduously we have to pretend friendly to them. On a more macroscopic level, discrimination has been tucked away in resource allocation, social prejudice and things at the very core of the lower and upper structures.

On today's episode, we are wielding an approach to it in a relatively micro and primitive level with a whole new Monster Box writer.

This article is from To Thien Bao, an Amsterdam alumnus, a former FACE OFF IELTS guest and currently an US overseas.

The biological differences between races:

When we talk about race, most people would think of skin color as the main identifier, not knowing that that "identifier" is strictly related to the human evolution, especially our very relationship with the sun.

Basically, different races are born to adapt to different environments and lifestyles. In fact, the most recent research suggests that humans did originate in Africa, which means that we were once genuinely black. The births of the white and yellow, thus, were merely a matter of evolution to receive more sunlight in where they immigrated - Europe and East Asia, North Asia, those away from the equator.

Skin color is contingent upon the amount of melanin, a special chemical our melanocytes cells secrete to either absorb or disperse UV radiation from sunlight. It comes in two forms, either red/yellow pheomelanin, or brown/black eumelanin.

Also, we've "developed" darker skin tones as an adaptation to shield us from sunburns and folic acid deprivation . (Folic acid, or vitamin B, is one of the essential vitamins of the human body that facilitates cell growth and reproduction).

The very mechanism of this entire process revolves around our pituitary gland (master gland, as we usually call it). As we get exposed to sunlight, the pituitary gland gets other glands to produce MSH (melanocyte-stimulating hormones), increasing the amount of melanocytes and melanin within our bodies .

That amount acts as a precursor to the formation of pigmentation, which further explains the darkening of our skins. Without melanin, our body would be dogged by a copious amount of harmful UV rays. The pituitary gland, thus, exists to prevent this from happening.

"Survival of the Sickest" provided us with a classic example: sunglasses, which seem helpful as they are to protect our eyes from harmful UV rays. However, their pitfall comes from their blocking the only agent of our pituitary gland - the optic nerve (located in the back of our eyes).

As a result, as our bodies are exposed to sunlight, the master gland does receive no warning, thus, slows down the production of hormones and secretes less melanin, gambling our health on sunburns, Werner syndrome (premature aging), folic acid (vitamin B) deficiency and the notorious skin cancer. By wearing sunglasses, you yourselves are turning off your own defense system and "gaining" you many a superfluous problem.

Still, why do we have different races, or in other words, different skin colors?

From the argument of evolutionary theory, humans did thrive on Africa, undergoing a period of hair loss and skin darkening to resist the copious amount of sunlight there. The following migrations to multifarious geographical areas did catalyze many a skin color mutation. To put into perspective, Europeans are white as their lands have received little sunlight. Due to the cold weather, they have acclimated to wearing thick fur to protect their bodies, which in turn produce less melanin whilst ensuring the capability to absorb the most energy from the sun, in particular, to synthesize vitamin D.

Skin color is not the only difference between races through multifarious evolution.

First, let's look further into the effects of sunlight. If it is harmful, hadn't we better stay indoor and get exposed to artificial light?

The thing is, almost everything is a two-edged sword. When the sunlight contacts your skin, it triggers the body's synthesis of vitamin D and uses up the underneath cholesterol. But that means dark-skinned people would receive less vitamin D than the white, for their melanin would prevent sunlight from coming in. Nonetheless, evolution did leave room for the so-called apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genome.

Together with internal lipids, the protein forms lipoprotein compounds responsible for packaging cholesterol and other fats, and carrying them into the bloodstream. In a nutshell, ApoE cranks up the cholesterol level in our bodies to maximize the amount of sunlight the dark-skinned can receive.

After all, evolution is not perfect. ApoE and the excess cholesterol in their body have got them more vulnerable to heart diseases, strokes and Alzheimer. The U.S. Department of Health and Human services did report that by , black Americans were times more likely to catch obesity than their white counterparts. "African American women have the highest rates of obesity or overweight compared to others. On average, out of of which were".

Now, let's look at Asians, the race standing out from Westerners for their distinct culture and traditions. And that is also part of the reason why we are prone to certain diseases and symptoms.

Take the Asian flush as an example. It is a phenomenon in which a person's consumption of alcohol causes his/her face to turn tomato red, accompanied by heightened heart rate, headache and nausea.

Such a symptom is commonplace among Asians, since they are deprived of the ALDH enzyme . As a result, their bodies can hardly effectively perform the conversion of alcohol byproducts, thus, allowing more toxic substances such as acetaldehyde to enter the internal system.

Still, the gene mutation seems virtually nonexistent among Europeans. As a rule, the responsibility again rests on evolution. One theory suggested that fermentation, a method used to manage water wastes there did mix alcohol into clean water sources. Europeans, thus, have evolved towards adapting to alcohol detoxification, a superior capability over Asians .

So how have these biological and cultural differences affected our notions regarding race?

Propagate the differences

This is when essentialism comes in handy. It holds that every individual owns certain traits and abilities of the groups/races (classified by skin color, to demonstrate) they belong to. In other words, the dogma overrules that every race is born with different, inherent and never-changing natures.

Although this does not always result in prejudices, essentialists go as far as taking not only biological differences but also culture for granted. They believe people of the same races to carry the same characteristics and conduct similar behaviours.

As a whole, essentialism has served as a driving factor behind political and sociological prejudices. "In some cases, judges and legislators appear to be in the grip of cultural, racial and gendered biases that distort their decisions in ways that stereotype groups. States that adopt multicultural policies exacerbate these tendencies by providing incentives for citizens to use their cultural and religious identities strategically by exaggerating the importance or uniformity of a particular practice or belief in order to secure concessions from the state" .

Another belief is ethnocentrism, in which a single race is used as a base model to judge the rest. White supremacy is an aggressive example. Even when other races are not all the time considered inferior, the ideology itself has still tilted people towards emotional biases on themselves and those from different races.

Once an Essentialist, doomed one day an Ethnocentrist.

After all, other than the existence of multifarious dogmas (which vary from one to another), there is actually not much of a difference between races. That said, the very fact that we humans are a united one has never been enough to somehow rock the bottom of every individual's perception.

In fact, given that there has existed no scientific evidence on the white supremacy over any other, nor those suggesting that a person's skin color determines his/her intelligence, reliability or creativity, the rise of Essentialism/Ethnocentrism has got many an individual to purport that there MUST be a supreme race over other mediocrities.

Why is "All Lives Matter" nothing but a ridicule?

Could the differences in cultures, gene mutations, skin, eye and hair colors ever make up for the modern-day racism and xenophobia tucked away in our communities? Why are some still thinking of their race as superior to others'? The psychology behind racism may be the key to such puzzles.

As a rule, the concept of privilege plays a certain role. Let's look at the most recent event on the news, the "Black Lives Matter" protests fiercely breaking out after the death of George Floyd. Given the majority of protestors are black, why are others not joining them, if they do think that racism is so unscrupulous that it needs done away with asap?

In their article "Herd Invisibility: The Psychology of Racial Privilege", L. Taylor Phillips and Brian S. Lowery have delved into the psychology shaped by the white's privileged position in the social hierarchy. "We argue that privilege is not inherently invisible; rather, Whites use cloaking strategies to address the discomfort associated with naked privilege. We further suggest that individuals acting to protect their own innocence leads to the emergence of invisibility at the societal level. A herd invisibility results, protecting both the innocence and privileges of individual Whites, but without their necessarily having to act on individual innocence or maintenance motivations" .

Back to the current protests, we've all too often come across an inordinate number of fierce online arguments and bombardments toward the "All Lives Matter". This is far-reaching, as whilst many people see this as a form of internalized racism, leveraged to cloak up the black's schemes, the statement itself is inherently true, for it rules that everyone, regardless of races, should be equally treated.

In other words, it serves as the very strategy to maintain the aforementioned inherent privileges.

Many who get fierce on 'Black lives matter' are often soothed by another motto "Well, all lives matter" , and then quite a number of violent comments to ridicule others' viewpoint. Most of the time, either these "allegedly" misunderstandings or untimely uses of these concepts do breed unintentional conflict and hostility, to merely add fuel to the fierce fires.

Secondly, racism is not a one-way problem that requires a silver bullet alone. In fact, that is the opposite in certain areas, for instance, the affirmative action appeal filed against American universities due to the use of racial quotas. Here, the accusers are addressing what is essentially reverse-racism.

Should an A race student getting admitted into a university instead of another student from race B in order to fulfill the planned "race" quota, regardless of however outstanding the latter is, all-to-often takes place, there is no doubt that they themselves would pave the very way for racial stereotypes.

Should we adopt the so-called color-blind policy to head towards a color-blind society? Should we wield discrimination to somehow halt discrimination? Given the varied meaning of the aforementioned terms, it still is a matter of fact that racism is a complex problem that requires a well-planned solution to minimize contradictory issues.

Racism is a controversial issue. Nevertheless, were we to "leave it be" and stay away from potential troubles, we would still run into the pitfall of apathy - that since it is none of our business, there would be no need to pay attention. After all, such a superficial presumption has acted as a precursor to the dawn of systemic racism.

In fact, it is what is causing all the troubles in ending racism itself. It lies within our personal perceptions, as well as all the integral parts of the society. In other words, it was hidden deep inside the system, from wealth, education (hence the existence of affirmative action), criminal justice (hence the recent protests) and even areas such as housing and healthcare.

The other big part of this is implicit bias, that is the unconscious stereotyping of groups of individuals that affects our decision through our social cognition. Examples are phrases like: "Americans are fat", "Asians can't drive", "Black people are good at sports" etc. And since there is no one that is directly responsible for systemic racism, people tend to ignore it when defending their rights. In the end, another intricate barrier lays in our path to social justice.

Why is racism bad, and why do you need to fight against its existence?

Of course, the reasons stated are not enough to justify any delay in taking efforts to end racism. Our generation needs to head towards the end of this terrible phenomenon .Hence, there is a reason why "Black Lives Matter" exists. They were the victims of slavery and slave trades for a long period of time.

"In years, from one to two, the amount of cotton picked daily by an enslaved person increased percent. The profits from cotton propelled the US into a position as one of the leading economies in the world, and made the South its most prosperous region." In this time, black people were the primary source for labor for America, and they are one of the main reasons that America is at its current power and prosperity today.

In World War I, over African-American fought for the US in the Western Front. Again, nearly one million black people took a role in World War II, fighting for a country that considers them as second-class citizens .

In the army, most of them weren't trusted to take any major roles, instead, they worked as cooks, logistics or laborers,... Black servicemembers returned to an America that has not at all changed, as segregation by race continues to exist.

Since long ago, black people suffered from tremendous inequality, and the "Black lives matter" movement marked another big step in ending racism. However, instead of focusing on solving the problems as stated above, certain groups went against it ,and even attempted to accuse black people of "shutting down whites' mouth".

Furthermore, they used the looting and burning of supermarkets and stores that happened as evidence to help end the movement with pressure from the media and government. In their eyes, black people are the lower class, criminals and thieves, while this is a direct outcome of institutionalized racism in the past.

This leads to outsiders, like us, to having the same view, especially people who do not regularly pay attention to world events, only seeing small bits of information instead of the whole picture.

They also used the fact that more attention was paid to George Floyd's death than others. George Floyd was black. His death was recorded on camera, and it was the fuze to everything that went on afterwards.

This is not the first case of police brutality towards black fugitives, but it is one of the very few that caught the attention of world and national news, and black people are using it to coerce the government to perform police reform. In reality, there has already been a list of police brutality cases to black people in the history of America. Black people were % of those killed despite being only less of the population .

There is obviously no reason for a white person to hate a black person without knowing them in person. The majority of racism was created through the legacy of slavery, made-up excuses and greed of mankind in history.

The bias falls not only on the black, but also other races cohabiting on the so-called "united" states, including Asians.

Asians have already more or less white-discriminated. In all lieklihood, either the discrimination "must have got" not severe enough, or the very lessons we have been taught - "a bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit" when we are miserably "forlorn in a foreign land" have got us to stove away our resentment.

Or we are as much influenced by ethnocentrism, thus, self-developing a feeling that we are the oppressed, reigned and bullied-by-the-white "protagonists".

After all, even when it is to calm our angst for some time, the feeling still can't change the fact that we are getting down and out.

Blacks did go fiercely against the Vietnam War, hoping that we would never ridicule their ancestors' very movements, especially when we are neither in their shoes nor rocked by their "revolution".


