While surfing the net, I did come across a thousand-like Facebook status arguing that "mainstream music is not always awful, nor is its eccentric counterpart incontrovertibly exceptional". Given that the proclaim itself was, albeit ridiculously, dogmatized, it was as much side-splitting, once we consider the very fact that people are handsomely favoring the so-called eccentric music.

Frankly speaking, I would rather stand behind the "underground" ardent supporters, whilst getting somewhat down on "mainstreamers". Nevertheless, instead of having originated from their actual quality, my preferences must have been deep-rooted in the inherent subservient psychology (the subservient should have been shored up in every field), which, I believe, is indeed prosperous to every involved individuals. Rallying round the independent artists - the bush-league in the market - would, on the one hand, either unburden or hearten them (spiritually at least, given the fruitless financial aids) to go all-out, bettering their products; on the other hand, defy their already-raging mainstreamers.

So does standing up for the down-and-out and other minority groups in this society. I myself purport that this action alone would catalyze the so-called social diversity, somehow bridging the inherently-unbridgeable-social-cracks. After all, the ultimate factor behind my prelation must have lied in the very fact that Monster Box is, to some extent, an "underground" product. Again, given the financial pains, we've, at least, gained some fame, and that seems rather alleviating.

Nonetheless, we could hardly leverage those preferences and inherent nature to leap to such an illogical, superficial conclusions as the poor winning great-hearted personalities over the well-heeled, and underground music sounding more beautiful than its mainstream counterparts. Those are, to all appearances, contradistinct concepts.

This paper, thus, is in a high attempt to address the very reasons behind the inherently-successful mainstream products, insomuch as there would forevermore been a group getting down on this. It would be handsome, had you beforehand read a Monster Box's post on how-much-of-a-far-cry-economic-laws-and-individual-personalities-are. Still, had you not, it would be devastatingly handsome should you read it later on.

Music, and why listening to which is favorable among humans?

Our brains are perfectly pre-setup to pin our bodies down attentive of themselves. Many a universal scientific theory asserted that such basic human activities as eating, sleeping, fleeing or making love, to either hold on or sustain our race, had always been administered by our neurological reflex systems. Which, for the most part, was governed by the very regulation of sensory hormones, to illustrate, dopamine, which excited us, and other hormones to breed stagnation and depression .

This appears as the very mechanism to trailblaze our lives, halting any precipitous attempt to jump down from the balcony (for fear would overwhelm it), or sparing some times off the games we are enjoying. Given the the system itself is troublesome, getting us woefully suffered within an increasingly convoluted society, it's also catalyzed every living activity of ours.

In fact, as the system is not really prominent, so it has, every so often, been "tricked". To put into perspective, the very mechanism of depression or procrastination formerly set up to bypass pitfalls has turned out awfully murderous, forasmuch as humans have all too often abused drugs, s*x, and never-ending entertainment to beg for the secretion of some happy hormones.

Nevertheless, there still exist other "tolerable" ways to satisfy the primitive brains, without ever spoiling our very positions in the modern society. Take, for example, listening to music.

Some hypothesized that our music predilection derived from the very fact that they indeed stimulated our reward systems, tricking our brains into releasing dopamine - the most violent stimulus as we "chill" with music . Our brain, accordingly, perceived music as the very way it tilted toward speeches. Studies did even spell out the music-heart and -brain rhythm relationships . Given the data from previous works, which evidenced that we were more-than-good at recognizing, thus, all-too-often driven by others' emotions in their voices, should music simulate voice, at a higher level, it would as well amplify comfort and dismay.

After all, this explains why we are born with a liking toward music, regardless of time, region, culture or religion. Another concept of equal significance is love.

Once combined, the two "universal" concepts have catalyzed a monotonous popular music culture.

Pop ballad, pop music and the so-palled trend in that pop culture

We've all too often come across pop, either in the so-called "pop culture" or "pop ballad". On the whole, the term stands for "popular", implying a prevalent trend (as in "pop culture"). As a rule, it is wielded against the "high culture" - the elites' culture and art taste, to name a few, chamber music, classical music, opera and other similar forms of art (we did have a rather readable explanation article on these two concepts).

Britannica defines pop ballad as slow-paced love songs; in which "ballad" can be interpreted as rhymed, music-like poems. This "ballad" is thriving in, for the most part, popular music genres, ranging from rock ballad, soul ballad, country ballad to rock metal ballads (either rock, soul or country was at least once overwhelmed the global music market).

In other simplified words, every popular love song, by certain period, is a pop ballad. This seems rather bewildering, for the very "pop" in pop ballad is contradistinct to that in pop music. After all, it is "pop", to itself single out from rap, rock and soul.

To put into perspective, pop ballad is the very medley of the two most dominant concepts in the human civilization: music and love. Forasmuch as pop music was another concept emerging around the late s (pop and rock were formerly synonymous), referring to the music genre introduced to "suck in everyone". After all, Simon Frith, a British musician, purported that the genre was to beforehand schemed toward profit growth, thus, having no specific identity.

Pop music indeed "usurps" many a technique from other genres, from classical musi's harmonies, rap's puns to many other elements from soul, jazz and rock. The only characteristic of which, as proclaimed by Simon Frith and Timothy Warner, is the ultimate scheme to "suck people in, instead of attempting to produce masterpieces" and the very focal points on mass-producing, technology applications and audio versions introduction, without ever heeding stage performances, as in other music genres. Pop songs have all-too-simple content and structure on either love or romantic relationships, lasting from minutes.

The focal points on mass production and technology was the very factors behind the "pop" boom in-between the global urbanization period. After all, the dawn of televisions by the s and the withering (in price) radio-semiconductor technology by the s did indeed facilitated everyone (especially teenagers) to all-the-time enjoy music.

The US market, thereafter, acted as a precursor to the very blossom of the industry, creating such world-class icons as The Beatles, Michael Jackson and Madonna. Howbeit belated, either Europe, Japan or South Korea has also stepped up, exerting significant influence.

Vietnam, given the last-minute debut, did hardly lag behind.

Why Vietnamese pop is bizarrely monotonous

For the recent years, Vietnam's top trending YouTube Vietnam has evidence the overwhelming dominance of pop music, and for the most part, pop ballads. Whilst mainstream products remain that monotonous, its underground counterpart has appeared ever-evolving, partly reflecting the long established trends throughout the global history of music.

For the last years, while the mainstream media was still stormed by pop, Vietnam's underground music market has welcomed the very debuts of rock, rap, indie rock and house. Only until recently has rap begun its reign within the mainstream market, even when this had formerly dominated US-UK and KPop markets. After all, musician must have had every reason to go for "monotonous, yet successful" instead of "multifarious, yet bitterly failing", as afore-argued in previous parts.

Whilst US-UK pop thrived on the dawn of portable TVs and radios in-between the ss, Vietnam pop, however, has feasted on the very dawn of internet and prosperous social networking platforms. This has been the period, in which Millenials and Z genes are born accessible to these technology, thus, manifesting as a lucrative market for pop music consumption.

On the other hand, Vietnam's fierce economic growth since recent years, especially in the smartphone and laptop market (GfK), must have been a relevant considerable factor. Urbanization, after all, is also a handsome catalyst (this is rather convoluted, and I wish we had more time to dig further into it).

As a rule, instead of enjoying a handsome childhood by DVD tapes CDs, and such old-school idols as Vang Trang Khoc, HKT and Vinh Thuyen Kim, the young have been born ready-and-accessible to Bich Phuong, Son Tung, Den Vau or Amee. Given the ill-developed music taste, pop music, to all appearances, must be the most "beautiful" genre to an inordinate number of Z-gen and millennial audiences - a universal trend, on a global scale.

This ever-growing and lucrative market has turned the very pop business (as aforementioned, tilted toward the mass and profit growth) into a social norm. Given the global music market - a fierce competition between Brobdingnagians - rock, country, rap and pop, Vietnam's mainstream market is purely fuelling pop and (partially) rap. Then, could you ever convince not to invest in pop?

Even when leaving out market factors, pop is the genre beforehand designed centering profits, especially the pop ballad sub-branch. Studies did evidence that we tilted toward gloomy music. There indeed exists the so-called "gloomy music paradox", which interprets that 'relief' as as listeners, we are to witness some sad stories, and breathe sighs of relief, as long as we're not in that situation.

Data from other studies also suggest that humans, regardless of geographical differences, prefer soothing music, inasmuch as the most popular genres have been dance, lullaby and ballad.

After all, investors have every reason to believe that going all-out for pop products in Vietnam - an emerging market must be a wise choice, at least financially.

The triumph of pop ballads has, in all likelihood, paved the very way for series "very much alike" singers and "much the same" works. Given the dawns of either Den Vau, Son Tung or Hoang Thuy Linh, mainstream music market has since been as much monotonous. For the most part, they come around in forms of love songs, starting with sounds from some piano keys, accompanied by some dim organ sounds, having more-than-similar structures with handsomely gorgeous casts to suck in short-term attention, acting as a precursor to the singers' branding and images.

In fact, this is somewhat of the "old-school pop disease". The awful abuse of love and gloomy melodies has violently palled the genre. A scientific report published on Nature (, a survey based on more than audio recordings from ) claimed that works since the s have got much less diverse in pitch, timbre, recording techniques, and musical instruments. The only improvements, accordingly, were in loudness and noise levels 

A New York University's survey participants even indicated that the s songs turned out the most memorable to them, instead of those emerging around .

After all, unsurprisingly, Vietnam's market might stir up in you the very same feelings, as most of the songs are leaning on each other and easily boring or even forgotten after a few months. create waves. We know all too well that (if not, you can always slog through a Monster Box's article), someone's success might be as straightforwardly as they did solve the market problem. The factor of either success or failure evaluated from some visual views on revenue and coverage, thus, might every so often evidence neither their inherent nature nor very quality. And vice versa.

To date, the article seems rather wordy. The popular expectation from our beloved audience suggest that the following parts should be to counter-argue to make the entire article "objective and all-rounded". Take, for example, lauding the very benefits of pop on Vietnamese.

Given that I can not be dead sure that I am satisfying those expectations, I do assert that the disregards toward the so-called "catchpenny music" is getting all the rage among global music critics, either directly or indirectly. After all, neither those defiances nor this article are to do away with pop (which is contrary to reason), instead, they are for many other common-good purposes.

The final part of this article is to debunk some inherent misunderstandings. First, "catchpenny music", either pop-style or pop ballad products, are actually exorbitant, even when it comes to the MV making and advertising stages. Second, the Vietnam market itself has worked its own way up, getting day-on-day bettered (merely not good enough). Third, this article is to analyze the factors behind the success of pop music, either on a global or local scale, instead of giving any solutions or promises of an auspicious music market (for that counts on history).

Final final words: listen to whatever you like.


