We are born in a romantic relationship with trees. On the one hand, we dote on them, for their existence has given the very grounds for ours. On the other hand, we do since that static existence could hardly "voice" and stir up any fierce controversies on their ill-fatedness.

Given the once-raging arguments for the so-called "dogmeat justice", those on trees have also broken out, howbeit never raged.

After all, we have come up with either of these two silver bullets: to chop down or to plant more. Given that silver bullets could get us no further than superficiality.

Why do we have to urban-plant?

Our common sense alone has it that flora is critical to humans, to any of our urban areas, inasmuch as there must be a reason to perceive planting as a should-do. We, thus, must also have no reason to go wild on whether "to urban-plant or not". Nevertheless, given the face values of such a prejudiced, albeit true, presumption, it still can propose no feasible solution to step up any of the related issues.

Even when they are born au courant with the significance of urban planting, either scientists, activists or policymakers still are meticulously studying to get from a prejudiced presumption to many a mindful decision: whether "where to", "how to" or "what to plant". They know all too well that the urban structures always are convoluted, entangled with layers of other infrastructures, instead of purely a flora.

In, coordinated with Jean-Claude Antonini - President of Angers Loire Métropole urban district council, Dominique Douard - President of Val'hor Organization did embark on a meta-analysis project on former studies on the benefits of urban floras. Their conclusions were as follows:

First, they bettered citizens' health (either physical, mental or social). The study evidenced that citizens would gravitate towards physical activities, and lower their own risk of overweight as either parks or any green spaces were built close to their vicinity. Not only serving as a place to do-something, they also acted as a motivation for one to walk out of his very "nest", let alone the better the spaces were (with a maintained-good quality to comfort the very locals), the more captivating they would appear to citizens .

In his research, Mitchell did as well conclude that urban green spaces somehow minimized the risks of running into fatal cardiovascular/respiratory diseases, dulled the symptoms of attention deficit disorders, improved concentration, toned down stress, thereupon increasing the life expectancy of citizens. Strikingly enough, the seemingly unbridgeable health gap between upper and lower classes could have been more or less "bridged", had the latter participated in outdoor physical activities held in these spaces.

Secondly, the urban floras help bring about the "fragile" ecological balance within urban contexts. The construction and maintenance of parks are, by all means, conducive to biodiversity preservation. They pave the very way for the urban-planting of exotic flora (from multifarious origins), thus sustaining the essential biodiversity among parks and botanics. Still, such a mission is arduous, for those shouldering it must beforehand study many a factor (to name a few, soil quality, climate, land use and habitat) behind a new foreign plant, let alone the entire preexisting flora.

By releasing vapors and providing shades, every flora does play a crucial role in regulating urban temperature. Indeed, it lowered the daily temperature at parks by Celsius degree, and nightly on average, thus, saving % the amount of power consumption incurred from air-conditioners at many cities, which spelt out an annual saving of US dollars .

Other studies also evidenced that plants did purify the atmosphere (including fine particles - PM  and coevally absorb many an air pollutants - to demonstrate, NO and SO by correspondingly and 

Third, flora leverages the economy. Crompton asserted that any property (either a house/an apartment and other real estate properties) located near green spaces did indeed own a higher value than others .

On the other hand, urban agriculture - the opening of homegrown farms in either the vicinity or the interior of any city would not only offer farmers substantial economic benefits, consumers shopping options, the society the critical cohesion, but also grant the urban areas with a considerable amount of green spaces.

How to plant?

The most recent controversies on Vietnam's urban-planting have purely revolved around the two major issues of "to cut or not" and "what to cultivate" . After all, is the actual problem that straightforward?

Arbor Day Foundation - one of the largest US non-profit tree planting organizations once listed the very criteria for urban planners to beforehand take into consideration were they to implement a tree planting project: the estimated height of mature trees; the maximum reachable width of canopies; tree types - either deciduous or evergreen; shapes of tree shade; growth rates - either rapid or slow; the essential amounts of soil, light and moisture for growth; fruits - either fruitless or fruitable and finally the hardiness zones critical for growth. Each came with a specific instruction sheet.

There exists the so-called concept of "green infrastructure" among other urban tree planting techniques. It has emerged as a trend of combining urban models with crops from the very step of construction design, under meticulous deliberations after rainfall management. The ideal model, thus, acclimates to any climate change and provides citizens with a healthy living environment.

In such a green infrastructure, trees are planted in accordance with either of the following techniques: rain gardens - those designed to retain a certain amount of rainwater to later water the soil itself; or "bioswales" - the strips of trees along the roads (take for example those on Dien Bien Phu street), built in a slope towards the center to filter waste and share the crippling burden on the urban drainage system (google for better visualization).

In addition, there must be different planting techniques to serve different purposes and priorities. To illustrate, people would leverage the so-called "soil vaults" techniques (use vaults to stabilize roots) - to halt the uprooting and nail down the uniformity of root systems, suspended sidewalk systems (strip-of-tree-plant on sidewalks) - to retain rainwater for roots and synchronize the strip for aesthetic purposes.

Last but not least, to optimize urban-planting, policy makers would need to beforehand design the overall shape and framework trend of crops in different terrains (from wastelands, rural, suburban, inner city to city center).

We do need to know these, don't we?

No. Sincerely speaking, save your precious mindfulness on other more practical things. Given that your work, your study, your entangled social relationships have forevermore stressed you out, a piece of superficial knowledge on urban flora (which sounds bone-dry) must appear any less of a waste of time and brain matter.

Still, if any, knowledge is power. To all appearances, every citizen is neither coerced to truly understand the implemented state laws nor demanded to gain any knowledge of the very infrastructures/superstructures to call for either tree-planting or -chopping. Nonetheless, to gain some insights into the world we are cohabiting must be thought-provoking, as far as I'm concerned. Forasmuch as to own some precious knowledge to merely "get others to act" itself is a contribution to society. We do, by no means, "have-to" stand up and fight on our own.

As with the recent fierce fusses over tree-chopping at schools, instead of striving to better the situation, the answer must have been sophisticated, had we been those directly involved.

Given that we do have every solution to any problem, we still are constrained to some, in another case, options on a supermarket shelf. Due to your very budgets, the time needed to cook and the interests of your family members, you are, after all, left with purely some, if any, affordable and dreary options, given that you do have every option.

So is the policy-making process. Before you could give decision on "replacing all the school greenery", you need to beforehand take into consideration how much it might cost, how many laborers might be involved, how long it might take, how sophisticated the techniques might be, who to be charged, whether this is a should, if the pitfalls might overwhelm that pricey costs, who to supply the trees, who to administer the project, where the unrooted might end up, who to handle the uprooting, who to charge, and so on and so forth. And bear this in mind, every step needs meticulously stepped up.

In this manner, tree-chopping would eventually turn out the least painful option, given the long-term controversial outcomes. In all likelihood, this seems hardly a moral act. Nor do we have many a viable option to select from, especially when we still are struggling to accomplish the very economic and educational goals we did formerly set out. In a like manner, we could hardly spend much time enjoying shopping/cooking, for we still are dogged by many other burdens.

In fact, to bypass "painful" option in desperate circumstances, we do need to embark on first-class solution (howbeit by all means more arduous): deliberately select the seeds (with the very attentiveness that their survivability in rain season must be top-listed above the mature appearances and scents); attentive planning and the applications of advanced planting techniques.

The past has it that we were actually substandard at many a field, expecially in urban planning, which nowadays seems visibly inferior and adversely influential to reality.

After all, we should hope that our grandchildren would never need to again bitterly voice for what their grandparents had.


