THRESHOLDS - THE VERY STAIRCASE TO A LESS ARDUOUS LIFE

Of late, everyone has all too often zeroed in those tilted towards "dramatizing everything", in other simplified words, the cooking-up-the-ordinary-events-as-heinous-and-somewhat-unnerving type of person. We, after all, should stave off such malicious deadwoods, which, however, demand every critical knowledge on threshold. Nonetheless, [before you could ever gain some] hurting for fundamental philosophical knowledge would not only get you infected by them, it would even turn you into "drama bigots".

After all, what exactly is "threshold"?

To spell out what worths your time

(and what to leave out).

To survive to date, every living creature must have attained the very skills of not only ferreting out the crucial, but also leaving out the redundant. It must have cost them lavishly extravagant prices - the dying away of generations during millions of years of evolution - to spell out this "redundancy".

To put into perspective, humans' concentration system is purely an evolutionary trait to cost us less mind energy to track down ripe apples within a forest, instead of slogging through the entire area. Those getting sucked in everything, thus, must have died away before they could pass on their genes, in a like manner to the way they splurged most of their energy on which, getting distracted, and ceasing themselves to exist.

That said, how could apples draw their attention? The answer lies in the very red color of the rippen ones, which, in other words, have breached their own threshold. This is the very factor to determine whether something was "edible" to humans. Before going beyond the threshold and turning red, the apple must formerly immerse in the green forest, drawing in pretty much no attention for it was back then "inedible".

So must any other within-the-threshold things. After all, humans' social cognitive has barely evolved to quell that of our instincts. In other simplified words, we, on the whole, hurt for the judging ability to distinguish the "edible" and the "inedible" as rigorously as our brains picking up apples.

We indeed lack the very skill to foreordain the "meaningful" and the "meaningless", thus splurging our precious time, mindfulness, and energy on the latter.

Threshold is a fairly common concept in science. We, accordingly, have all too often heard of hearing threshold, sensitivity threshold, pain threshold, odor detection threshold, and kidney threshold. This, after all, evidences that every environmental stimulus must have its own intensity so that breaching the threshold can be sensed as somewhat meaningful. A sound wave under the hearing threshold of hearing, to illustrate, is inaudible to humans' ears.

In a like manner, psychiatry has also leveraged the very concept of thresholds to spell out the eccentric in-between the other ordinary (inasmuch as the tipping point of which is being little by little lowered).

As far as I could concern, everyday life would turn out less burdensome, were we to apply the concept. To demonstrate, we could thus utilize the so-called "adultery threshold" to scrutinize whether one's behavior, thoughts or orientations have tilted towards intercourse or not.

As a rule, such ubiquitous behaviors as liking pretty girls' posts, glancing at well-shaped people, and cackling into laugh with the other genders are all-too-often "dramatized" as some heinously sinful "adultery", given that none of which might breach the aforementioned threshold. Such dramacating behaviors, thus, are any less ridiculous. Nevertheless, many a couple still are deriding which as [scheming intercourse behaviors].

On the other hand, we should frame our own "crush threshold" to mark off whether someone has a "crush" on us or not; or something similar to the "intimacy threshold", on which we can determine whether shoulder-to-shoulder and fooling others might spell out intimacy or not. We are even hurting for the "malice threshold", or "personality threshold" to avoid leaping to hasty, superficial conclusions which might awfully impact both ourselves and our surroundings.

To put into perspective, every blunder must have originated from that we are heedless of the necessary and sufficient conditions and that we are always on an emotional rollercoaster.

Adultery itself (or any other beyond-the-threshold behavior) can range from such trifles as liking photos and glancing to "severe" behaviors as private dates and exchanging pick up lines. That said, every single behaviour of which could hardly ever spell out the "intercourse relationships", for the same things might prevail as often as in any other social relationships. They are necessary, yet lacking sufficient conditions, forasmuch as when they are yet to breach the threshold, they bear pretty much no meaning.

Nonetheless, given that each of which might appear as any less normal, the incurred emotions alongside would, however, turn them into abnormal.

On the whole, common sense gets us to stay heedful of what hurts for responses, and any other redundancy alongside the way. Those with exceptional common sense, after all, are often referred to as "predestined", "good at being humans", and above all, "barely exist".

On the other hand, human civilization must have been predominated by those tilted towards "dramatizing", "overreacting" (extremely emotional) or "proclaiming-themselves-as-holding-supreme-power". They, after all, must be severely lacking the very knowledge and sensitivity to unfold the truth.

Also, we must have been all too often frustrated upon being boxed in by whom.

Learn it so that we can breach it

Staying heedful of thresholds even gets us to stay alert of when improvements are critical, and when we begin to stagnate.

In education, economics or physical health, thresholds are the very tipping point to bring about changes, thus, every so often get on our nerves.

For example, breaching the knowledge threshold will help learners gain a new perspective on the problem, understand "alien" knowledge and modify their outdated perceptions. Still, to accomplish which, we must beforehand understand that knowledge itself is indigestible, insurmountable, impeachable, and unperceivable, thus all-too-frustrating for they go wildly against what we had formerly worked out (further readings at).

In sports practice, there are people who when athletes pass, they will gain new fitness, new endurance and new muscle development. Excess lactate threshold, for example, improves endurance and limits muscle pain. But in order to cross the threshold, proper and regular exercise is required - which means experiencing pain and fatigue that seem to be daily.

As ubiquitously prevailing in economics, mathematics, and computer science, the threshold concept is with the very similar implications.

Given that we know all too well that everything (pertnear) would gravitate toward the bright side as we breach the threshold of which, quelling which might appear backbreaking and as much frustrating - insomuch as staying still in our comfort zones must always be buoyant and complaisant (until you loathe such a life, for nothing new would ever pop up in which).

After all, we must have many a time stumbled up on those turning-a-deaf-ear-to-knowledge-and-profundity-on-anything, for fear of cognitive conflicts and "brain fatigue". To them, being a homebody, getting our eyes glued onto screens, watching Netflix and playing games instead of sweating at gyms are unimpeachably enjoying-life. To them also, the ultimate pitfalls are ahead, as they, on the one hand, turn a blind eye to the existence of the negative threshold, on the other hand, give it in before they could go somewhere beyond the positive threshold.

After all, our ill-favored weight and excessive fat would end up "belly" - when we could hardly do anything to it afterwards. In a like manner, reading apathy would evolve into a hardwired habit once the threshold gets breached - little by little "integrating" into us. We, however, even sit still for it .

Some are splurging time on gyms, hurting for "barely enough" exercises, signing off every time their bodies "yell" them to stop. To all appearances, such a practice is solely to appeal to their little selves instead of actually making any progress, for they would hardly ever arrive at anywhere beyond the threshold.

As afore-argued on our previous Entropy post, we are eking out a living, treading water, for our efforts are woefully barely enough to get us in-between the universe's rat nest and its cataclysmic orientation.

To loom, after all, would demand our all-out efforts, given that the process itself would be way more backbreaking and frustrating.

(Or eat up more time, given a more prominent plan).

Instead of slogging through [and counting on] this [lowkey] article, or other self-helps. On the whole, it might appear of some help, yet so far so little, as merely drops in the ocean without other efforts.

Everyone owns a different threshold, which can be modified.

People, as a rule, lap up the very fact that a professional athlete does lift weights way heavier than beginners', whilst fiercely criticizing and cackling at newbies.

They, however, are still stiff-necked at the fact that some's physical health is not as tolerable as others', whilst keeping defending such ridicules.

Knowing that everything has its own one-of-a-kind threshold will appear thought-provoking, for it gets us to think more of aprociacy, and respect to ourselves and our surroundings.

However, the well of threshold knowledge is buried deeply in the very fact that we can overcome it, and "polish up" our threshold at each specific area. After all, we should neither look down on others, nor deride them since "there is no good sympathizing with whom, for he is born woefully vulnerable".

Knowing that everyone has every distinctive threshold gets us into their shoes, whilst staying heedful of the fact that every threshold might be altered gets us to strive for better selves, inasmuch as the so-called "feeble nature" has never eked out a living in this society (which, however, demands handsomeness).

Also, such a thing is even incontrovertibly true when it comes to modify attitudes toward ourselves.

To all appearances, people must have dimly recognized which, yet with serious attitudes or principles on it.

Perhaps because we don't like the basics, we're only interested in higher things. This is also the reason this article appears, because the problem is not that you are at any threshold, the problem is that you are below the threshold, but always want to be above the threshold.

Whilst thirsting for others' recognition - the very deep root of every torment, to the best of my knowledge.


