*The article might appear controversial.

Humans can be bracketed into three major groups: subjective, non-objective and subjective people purporting themselves as any less objective.

As, for the most part, a subjective person, I do count on other subjective people to better others' perspectives, instead of declaring themselves as objective, their dogmas as ultimate truths, and their minds as preeminent-enough-to-deny-others' views.

To all appearances, the third type must be the most 'hazardous'. They indeed tilt towards simplifying (distorting) the nature of problems and inferring many a thing from that distorted view. After all, they think of that as any-less-objective.

To put into perspective, given the somewhat-heightened public awareness on victim-blaming and body-shaming, their inherently entangled and 'cunning' natures still are stirring up year-on-year fiercer controversies.

Those bragging about victim-blaming and body-shaming are purporting that they have hardly turned a blind eye to the actual crimes. Rather, what they ever do is to 'deter and alert' others, to heighten the victims' awareness so that they would not out head towards pitfalls, and to 'instruct' the overweight on how to get lean.

Should you ever fall for any of which, the only thing you have ever evidenced is your superficial-than-superficial knowledge on the two issues.

Howbeit unscrupulous, why are many still blaspheming the victims?

Many do argue that there are 'fifty shades of blame', some of which are either 'for-fun-only', with malicious, or good intentions. They, to demonstrate, interpret their blaspheming as to wise up victims and others, thus, minimizing the chance of again running into those accidents.

Given that it is purely a sentimental thought, with neither any moral intention nor favourable consequences. After all, I can rarely spell out any dim light of goodness in victim-blaming.

Regarding the very motivations for your blaming behavior, it does hardly originate from any rational or moral motives. Rather, it is purely a natural reaction mechanism among humans, in other words, an any-less-emotional motivation.

On the whole, the psychology behind the blaming tendency (albeit hardly self-gnawing at this behavior) is known as the "fundamental attribution error". The phenomenon takes place as we condemn (or blame) the behaviors and the very way one ends up as their subjective faults, yet turning a blind eye to any other objective external causes, given their could-be-critical roles in the situation and the little-known fact that we would behave against that blasphemy we ourselves are stormed by the same situation .

To put into perspective, we have all too often attributed a classmate's bad grades to internal traits: it must have been either their negligence to study, their in-born low intellectual levels or straightforwardly enough, their apathy. On the other hand, whenever we get a bad mark, we would turn to many an objective reason: the must-have-been too arduous examination, not-that-engaging subjects, grumpy supervisors, ill-favored exammates or the noisy neighbors leaving us no time to revise the lessons.

It as well applies to any other stories on harassment and violence. Upon being told of it, we would unwittingly immediately associate that accident to the victims' fault, whilst overlooking the external factors. We effortly leap to hasty conclusions of "she must have been so promiscuous that she got sexually harassed", "tat girl must have been rap*d for dressing too loosely and going out late at night" or "he must have held that phone irresponsibly, shame on him, lay the blame on himself first ". Later, should we ever run into similar situations, we would, however, blaspheme the society as too insecure/overflooded with bastards and street gangs as too impudent/ill-behaved.

Looking back at past events, people do indeed proclaim that had they been in that situation, they could have predicted the very consequences, given the fact that they could not. Should they insist on this, tell them to predict their own tomorrow.

Such a psychological effect is known as the Hindsight Bias . It postulates that the victims must have been capable of anticipating, thus, preventing any problems about to happen - from which, taking up smarter decisions.

Straightforwardly enough, a recent case has it that a female employee got sexually harassed by their superiors whilst hanging out with the whole company. Many did argue that "As girls, they themselves had better be perfectly aware of the situation. Hanging out late and drinking were unacceptable, thus, the consequences were foreseeable". Which sounds indeed so reasonable and 'humane'. That said, how many hangouts, on a global scale, every day? Forasmuch as would drinking less this time prevent sexual harassments next time? Isn't the best way to halt this moral corruption never again hanging out late and staying away from beer, even with colleagues, friends and relatives?

Then what seems reasonable and humane must be to not drive upon drinking alcohol instead. While the perpetrators still are latent elsewhere, someone must be doomed harassed, sooner or later.

Last but not least, the ultimate, ubiquitous theory purports that the world is fair and things are there for some reasons. To put into perspective, some disasters sweeping someone must have been the very consequences of their previous mistakes, and they must have been, more or less, deserved that. This is known as the so-called just-world phenomenon.

Such a fallacious belief gets us to effortlessly fall for superficial conclusions: someone is desperately dogged due to their 'corrupted' nature. The world, thus, is purely justifying things. A loosely dressed girl, a promiscuous lifestyle or many other old-as-the-hill things are getting her sexually harassed, whilst the absent-minded are getting robbed. After all, the "good" must have hardly ever run into such troubles for they have always handsomely behaved, and kept an eye on belongings.

(Blaming the victim itself must have been a handsome behavior, mustn't it?)

This appears any less of the self-proclaimed 'good boys' hurting for good treatment from others, for they themselves must have been 'good enough'. Given the very fact that it is not how the world actually operates. Schemers are still out there, enjoying human rights as ordinary people, whilst the scrupulous are all too ill-fated.

After all, everything is appearing unpremeditated.

This "good boy" mechanism serves as a defensive wall against the very fear of facing vulnerability, and for the desires to minimize anxiety , as an authoritative tool to inflict miseries on others. The victims, thus, are racked with not only physical pains but also nagging-excruciating-mental pains from their 'fellow' humans.

Lerner's famous experiment did indeed evidence this mechanism. He, accordingly, asked a group of women to watch the video of another woman getting electrified for not remembering the previously-taught vocabulary (the punishment, however, was mock).

At first glance, these women did feel sorry for the girl's suffering, still, as a rule, they presumed that she worthed of the punishment, 'had she taken the revisions, she would not have been electrified'. In other words, as they could grant the girl no justice, they would rather defend their beliefs that the world must have been a heavenly justified place, wherein the victim - the ill-behaved - deserved the punishment .

They, however, did never put forward the very question of why not learning what one had been taught would ever get them electrified.

It is time to stop, social justice warriors

In -year-old Elizabeth Smart was kidnapped in her own bedroom in Salt Lake. She was thereafter locked up, abused and tortured for the next nine months by a heinous couple - Brian Mitchell and Wanda Barzee. After getting rescued, she wideyedly thought that her pain would get sympathized and soothed by the community before

Many did put forward absurd questions of either why she had neither 'strived' to escape nor 'notified' others, or what she was doing so late the night she got kidnapped?

In all likelihood, these people are proclaiming that they are with good intentions, which is to alert the victim and others. Nevertheless, the victims must be heedless of such warnings, for they know all too well the very context of the incident, of why it did happen, and why they were rather destitute. After all, they know their pain better than anyone else.

Inasmuch as those "alerting" words are tucked away in private rooms, where fan out the very notion that not revising vocabulary is worth electrifying, instead of ever trying to outlaw that absurd punishment.

Given those "good intentions", victim blaming has, however, freaked victims and disheartened them so violently so that they would hardly step up and report to the police, for fear of getting blasphemed and losing others' faith. Only % of US victims did report what happened to them in to the police , whilst % the Vietnamese female journalists once sexually harassed also admitted that they had never reported such crimes .

Don't underestimate your blaspheming behavior and purporting that every incident to others is not-that-harsh. Over % US women are suffering from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder. The figure did soar to % among all victims, within weeks after the incidents.

Worse still, victim-blaming has been tucked away in entangled social relationships. To put into perspective, men gravitate towards blaming women for their appearances instead of the other way around, whites are prone to blaspheme blacks instead of their colleagues, homophobians would rather blame homosexuals than heterosexuals, victims abused by acquaintances are more harshly blamed than those harmed by strangers , and modern women (who reform their own dress codes) are more regularly targeted at than their traditional counterparts.

Such a behavior is nothing but a hypocrisy-colored prejudice, with indeed neither rationality or morality.

After all, what should we do?

Empathize with the victim.

Things did break out, the victim got hurt, and blaspheming words are, instead of improving the situation, exacerbating it. Then, isn't keeping your mouth shut the most outstanding move?

Rub off the wide-eyed proclamation of a 'perfectly justified' world.

If that's the case, we must be savoring better lives, for we proclaim that we do deserve it. This life, however, is woefully entangled with pitfalls tucked away in every corner. We could never imagine one day we would become victims (however handsome we are). How about bettering this world for the commonwealth?

For Gotham is forevermore introducing new criminals, one after another would commit some crimes, and sooner or later, crimes that 'missed' someone would end up rocking others. Blaspheming victims, thus, is not changing anything. Only by changing the entire city would be of some help.

Advice, if any, should be given before anything could take place.

When everything is over, advice is hardly of any help. Every so often, the very fact that you mouthfully repeat the same thing over and over again would get you no further than an asshole. "I did tell you from the beginning", for example.

After all, this is a murderously controversial argument. Fierce controversies over the responsibility of the victim have all too often been put forward in court sessions, and after-school hangouts everywhere.

As aforeargued, I myself am a subjective person desperately longing for other subjective colleagues to broaden my narrow perspective.

#MonsterBox



