The previous article on how to practice drawing science can also be applied to the field of motion graphics. Interested people can read the article on the fanpage, the link is under the comment section. We will also introduce some famous foreign websites in this field, in case you really want to study it yourself.

For I can only write one article on the subject of motion graphics, I want to take the time to speak for the hearts of the motion graphics designers, helping people to better understand a relatively common job but not really be noticed in Vietnam.

The problem with motion graphics designers in particular, and of creators in general, is that the products they made are always underestimated by the public. Perhaps people are accustomed to watching blockbusters of Disney, Pixar or Ghibli and then think that to do so is obvious and easy (there even exists the view that cartoons are always simpler than live action movies).

But people do not know that these products cost tens to hundreds of millions of dollars, years of producing, and they are the result of thousands of people (and the best people) from around the world; not to mention the cost of equipment and collective operation. The world is nearly billion people, but we have an animated movie worth watching every one or a few years, yet people say it's really ... easy?

Let's come to the example of the latest Monster Box's video. If calculated according to the market price in Vietnam, with such quality and complexity, every second will cost a production cost of million VND. In the field of motion graphics in our country, this cost is even higher for products with a higher level of complexity.

The reason for this expensive price is because besides the artist having to spend about working day for just one or two drawings, the motion graphics designer also takes all day to finish a scene about seconds. The higher the level of complexity and detail, the more time is spent. Time, is money itself.

Kurzgesagt once shared that they spent about working hours for each video, assuming the average salary they pay to their employees is about hour (knowing that payment for services in Europe is over /hour). So, the employee salary alone costs about billion VND/video lasting more than minutes.

Or Ghibli's Spirited Away, with a budget of  billion yen, that lasts minutes, so its cost was approximately million VND/second. Another representative of Disney is the classic Lion King, with a budget of million, lasting minutes, took a spending of about VND million/second.

The cost of big projects will include many things, but with small projects like Monster Box or Kurzgesagt, it's mostly about drawing and motion making. Particularly creating motion has been a job that requires a lot of things.

People will easily accept that higher salaries are deserved for doctors because they have to save people, or for engineers who have to handle many complex jobs to ensure the world is still running smoothly. What about being an artist and motion designer? Do animations? Why do those kiddy stuff cost money? I think this feeling is not uncommon. This may be due to the fact that Asian parents update careers information to set expectations for their children a little bit slowly (or they don't really consider non-traditional jobs as true "jobs"), schools also don't mention, and the media doesn't exploit that either. Nothing we know about this profession but many unfounded figures.

Perhaps this prejudice is also what makes many funny things about "helping to draw a logo" or "helping to make a short intro" to the point that it has become a common joke.

It is easy for you to ask a motion designer "to help making a short video, like Monster Box, that's easy", but actually it's similar to ask a tailor to sew suits for free (suppose each suit costs million VND) or ask the director of a bank branch to take care of your books within month. If these two requests are absurd, then why is the first one reasonable?

In order to create the short videos that you usually watch for a few minutes, those people sitting "behind the scene" had to spend years just to learn how to use the tools and to acquire essential knowledge. Once you have mastered the technical skills, then it wasn't just "pressing a few buttons to finish" (because there was no software like that). Just clicking and pressing the button they are, but they actually have to click and press a lot of things for something you think is simple.

If they want to create a scene where a character is walking, even if they know exactly what to do, they still have to start everything over again. There are no buttons to help create that "simple" scene. You have to rigging, then let each moving part move little by little, while aware of the position of the legs and shoulders in correlation with the hands ... You can watch the attached video under the comment section to visualize easier about the process.

This alone took half a day. And you have to do the same thing, hour by hour, day by day, month by month, year by year. You sit in front of two computer screens, aligning them little by little, adjusting every millimeter of the image moving in milliseconds just to create products that let the audience feel "smooth" and "reasonable".

This work wears out more mind and energy than people think. Sometimes there is news that someone has collapsed on his desk, often related to making videos like this. People in the same industry also hummed, startled, and then continued their natural cycle as if "surely death spared me over". They should indeed respect their own self and career.

You should indeed have respected them.

Life of Pi production studio, after receiving the Oscar - announced bankruptcy. They have even made a documentary about this. At the Oscars ceremony, their speeches were forced to end soon, and the organizers of the planet's most prestigious award in the entertainment industry even took an impolite act of inserting music to interrupt them - although their speech is no longer than any other actors. The people sitting below can only laugh and treat it as a joke.

The age of entertainment and consumption of free visual products is putting the people behind it into a difficult position. These people can not be famous as actors and singers, although the contribution of the two sides can not be counted fairly. But even without popularity, they don't receive respect from both inside and outside the industry.

Even people in the same industry don't protect each other, maybe it's not strange that outsiders don't.

This article is firstly dedicated to the people in the Monster Box team. For fulfilling our promise to the community, as well as ensuring the other elements of time and spending, members of the motion team had to constantly work more than what was supposed to be done. They had to spend weekends and overtime hours to hurry up the project.

I know there are many opinions that Monster Box stole or imitated Kurzgesagt's style and concept. All these ideas come from people who don't know anything about this field, so we don't resent such trifles (though it's sad). Those who think they are knowledgeable, but still think that we "steal or imitate", can confront us directly here.

Every drawing used in the video was made by us, every move was meticulously processed, the sound was legally purchased. There is no unauthorized download or use of any copyrighted material without permission. Artistic elements such as color, or how to handle movement are technical elements. Because Kurzgesagt using method A for scene cutting, then if Monster Box uses the same method, that means we ... steal?

If this logic is reasonable, of the graphic products in the world are stolen, from advertising to movies.

We, who have directly produced it, directly put effort and endured the pressure, thought that we would feel comfortable after posting the result of the team, turn out to feel more pressure because of the opinions of those without professional knowledge.

How dare Monster Box steal the style of a channel with million followers, and think this will not be revealed?

By the way, we are going to steal anime style, soon.
